http://sports.yahoo.com/news/alvarezs-pinch-hit-10th-lifts-pirates-over-dodgers-031256278--mlb.html
Alvarez's pinch-hit in 10th lifts Pirates over Dodgers 5-4

PITTSBURGH (AP) -- In an era of constantly shifting defenses, pinch-hitter Pedro Alvarez was not fazed when the Los Angeles Dodgers played a five-man infield against him with the game on the line.
Alvarez lined a bases-loaded single in the bottom of the 10th inning to give the Pittsburgh Pirates a 5-4 victory Friday night.
The Pirates loaded the bases with no outs and the score tied 4-4 against Jim Johnson (2-4) as Jung Ho Kang walked, Francisco Cervelli singled and Sean Rodriguez had a bunt single.
Left-hander J.P. Howell relieved and manager Don Mattingly moved an outfielder into the infield but the left-handed hitting Alvarez singled into right field for the game-winning hit.
''You don't care where the defense is,'' Alvarez said. ''My entire focus of the at-bat is on the pitcher and what he's trying to do. That's all you can control.''
The Pirates won for the 13th time in their last 16 home games and improved to 37-18 at PNC Park this season. They are 12-2 against NL West teams.
Dodgers starter Clayton Kershaw had his streak of 37 consecutive scoreless innings end when Gregory Polanco hit his first pitch of the game for a home run.
This marked the first time the major league's win leader (Pittsburgh's Gerrit Cole) faced the major league's strikeout leader (Kershaw) this late in a season since the Chicago White Sox's Wilbur Wood squared off against the California Angels' Nolan Ryan on Aug. 11, 1973, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.
However, the pitching duel did not materialize.
Kershaw, who had won his previous four starts, gave up four runs and nine hits in six innings with two walks and five strikeouts.
''It was a tough one,'' Kershaw said. ''I struggled all the way through pretty much and give the Pirates credit. They did a good job battling me the whole night and I just didn't really have good stuff.''