BBC Sport - Wimbledon 2015: James Ward hopes to build on Wimbledon run

Venue: All England Club Dates: 29 June - 12 July
Play: Outside courts 12:15 BST; Centre Court and Court One 13:00
BBC coverage: Across TV, radio and online with up to 15 live streams. Read More: TV and radio schedules.
Britain's James Ward hopes to use his run to the third round at Wimbledon as a springboard to more success.
The 28-year-old is set to break into the world's top 100 for the first time despite 
    

being knocked out by Vasek Pospisil 


     in five sets on Saturday.
"I learned a lot because I know I can mix it with the top players and that gives me confidence," Ward said.
"Now I just have to build on it. Making the top 100 is a big milestone and I have a few more years left."
Ward was given a wildcard into the main draw but went on to reach the last 32 of a Grand Slam for the first time.
That won him £77,000 in prize money - the biggest paycheck of his career, and more than the £60,000 he had earned this year before coming to Wimbledon.
The Londoner came close to continuing his progress and making the fourth round, but lost 6-4 3-6 2-6 6-3 8-6 to Pospisil after a three-hour battle on Court One.
"It has been a tremendous Wimbledon for James Ward. He will hold his head up high. He came up against an inspired player in the last two sets, particularly that last set.
He tried everything he could but came up against man who was in the zone. Pospisil served absolutely brilliantly, took his chances and deserved the win.
"But James is now in the top 100, has the US Open and Davis Cup coming up, and has a lot to look forward to. He has really made a move in the tennis world this week."
"It has been a great week but it was a tough one to lose," added Ward. "I have had my fair share of five-set wins and losses and obviously it hurts.
"Losing 8-6 in the fifth set, we are talking very, very small margins. I will look back at the match and see if there are a few improvements.
"It comes down to a couple of points here and there, some days it goes for you and some days it doesn't.
"But you can see this week that people who are ranked from 50 to 100 can beat anyone on their day - a great example of that came when 
    

Heather Watson came so close to beating Serena Williams 


     on Friday."
Wimbledon order of play
Women's World Cup
British Grand Prix
The Ashes