http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-league/33825989
BBC Sport - Theo Fages: Salford Red Devils scrum-half resigns from club

Salford Red Devils scrum-half Theo Fages has resigned because of an alleged breach of contract by the club, reports 
    
BBC Radio Manchester.
The France international, 20, 
    
asked to leave 

     the club last month, but Salford owner Marwan Koukash said he wanted a world-record transfer fee for him.
Fages' deal was to run until 2016, but he turned down a new contract.
Salford have issued a statement saying they reject his claims and do not accept his resignation.
11 June - Prop Tony Puletua, who is now on loan at Hull KR, confirms he is taking legal action against Salford
18 June - New Zealand full-back Kevin Locke resigns over unpaid wages and later joins Wakefield
23 June - Salford owner Koukash rejects Locke's claims and appoints Tim Sheens as director of rugby
2 July - Reports emerge that head coach Iestyn Harris is close to leaving - the club state he remains off work ill as Ian Watson becomes acting head coach
A statement from the player's representatives TM Sports said: "Theo Fages has confirmed that on Wednesday, 22 July he has exercised his right to terminate his contract with Salford Red Devils as per clause 24.1 due to a number of repudiatory breaches.
"The club were given the formal seven days' notice as per the requirements, and the RFL have advised that the club have exercised their right to appeal the decision and therefore the matter will be referred to an independent tribunal at the earliest opportunity.
Fages has been with Salford since the age of 16 and has scored six tries in 20 appearances this season - the club said he 
    
missed out on selection  

     for Sunday's game against Wakefield.
In response to his resignation the Super League side said: "The club categorically disputes the grounds of Theo's resignation.
"He remains a Salford employee until 30 November 2016, and his position with the club remains unchanged.
"It is disappointing at this critical stage of the season and after the club's huge investment in Theo's career that we are faced with this situation.
"The club will not allow players to simply walk away from their contractual commitments, and we have confidence in the appropriate regulatory systems that Salford's position will be vindicated."
Salford owner Marwan Koukash responded to fans' questions on Twitter over the Fages issue