BBC Sport - Super League Super 8s: Leeds Rhinos 49-10 Warrington Wolves

Leeds (24) 49
Tries: Watkins, Briscoe, Hardaker 2, McGuire, Moon, Burrow, Ablett Goals: Sinfield 8 Drop-goal: Sinfield
Warrington (6) 10
Tries: Penny 2 Goal: Sandow
Leeds moved two points clear of Wigan at the top of Super League with victory over Warrington in their first game of the Super 8s.
Kevin Penny raced away for the first of two tries to put the visitors ahead.
But tries from Kallum Watkins, Tom Briscoe, Zak Hardaker and Danny McGuire saw Rhinos lead 24-6 at half-time.
Hardaker's stunning second try plus efforts from Joel Moon, Rob Burrow and Carl Ablett, and 17 points from Kevin Sinfield, underlined Leeds' dominance.
With points carried over from games played so far this season, Warrington, who handed a debut to Australian half-back Chris Sandow, remain sixth in the table. They are four points behind fourth-placed Huddersfield and Castleford - who 
    

beat Hull FC 


     - in fifth.
The 12-team Super League and Championship divisions have become three groups of eight - Super League, The Qualifiers and Championship Shield.
The top four in the smaller Super League will enter the play-offs to compete for a place in October's Grand Final at Old Trafford.
This structure is new for 2015, with the Rugby Football League reintroducing promotion and relegation following six years of the licensing system.
Read more on the new format
Tony Smith's side had won both previous league meetings against Leeds this season but they were not to complete the hat-trick despite taking the lead when Daryl Clark broke clear before sending Penny over.
Leeds' response was immediate, with Watkins scoring after executing a quick play-the-ball with Sinfield.
Sinfield was the creator again with a brilliant floated pass to put Briscoe in at the corner, before Hardaker raced in from 40 metres after bursting on to Jamie Peacock's offload.
The video referee awarded Leeds' fourth try, scored by McGuire after Ablett bundled forward Adam Cuthbertson's offload without touching the ball with his hand.
Penny finished off a fine passing move in the corner early in the second half to give Warrington hope but that was soon extinguished when Hardaker brilliantly stepped through the visitors' defence to score.
Moon then powered his way over from close range before Sinfield added a drop-goal to his earlier six successful goals.
And as Warrington tired, Leeds added two more tries late on through Burrow and Ablett, both converted by Sinfield.
Leeds:

     Hardaker; Briscoe, Watkins, Moon, Hall; Sinfield, McGuire; Garbutt, Aiton, Peacock, Ablett, Keinhorst, Cuthbertson.
Replacements:

     Singleton, Delaney, Burrow, Leuluai.
Warrington:

     Ratchford; Penny, R. Evans, T. King, Monaghan; Sandow, Myler; England, Clark, Sims, Philbin, Currie, Hill.
Replacements:

     Dwyer, Asotasi, Wilde, G. King.
Att:

     13,118
Referee:

     James Child.