BBC Sport - All-Ireland Qualifiers Round 2A: Cavan 1-16 Roscommon 3-17

Roscommon ended Cavan's interest in the All-Ireland Football qualifiers for the second year in succession, running out 3-17 to 1-16 winners at Breffni Park.
A Martin Reilly goal after just 25 seconds got Cavan off to a flying start but Cathal Cregg found the net and his side led 1-7 to 1-6 at half-time.
The referee sent off Tomas Corr at the start of the second half for an offence that occurred during the first.
Two goals from Enda Smith then helped the Rossies to a comfortable success.
Reilly found the net soon after throw-in after his shot was only half-saved by goalkeeper Darren O'Malley.
Ciaran Murtagh and Donie Shine pointed for the visitors, with Niall McDermott recording a score for Cavan, before Cregg netted Roscommon's first goal after three and a half minutes.
Cian Mackey (2), Gearoid McKiernan, Niall Murray and Martin Reilly knocked over points for the hosts before the end of the first half, with Smith, Ultan Harney (2), Ciaran Murtagh and Donie Shine getting on the scoreboard for their opponents.
Cavan suffered a major setback when Corr was controversially red-carded before the commencement of the second period for an alleged striking action on Roscommon player Harney during a tussle near the end of the first half.
Cavan tried to substitute Corr before play re-started but it appeared that he was sent-off retrospectively, even though no action was taken at the time of the incident.
John Evans's side made their numerical advantage count with points from Conor Daly (2) and Shine in the early stages after the interval, Murray replying for Terry Hyland's Breffnimen.
Smith put Roscommon in control when he fired a right-foot shot under Raymond Galligan after shrugging off three Cavan players to make the score 2-10 to 1-8.
The sides continued to exchange points, with the Rossies always remaining in control as Harney, Ciaran Murtagh, Diarmuid Murtagh and Donie Smith landed the ball between the posts.
Substitutes Barry Reilly and Ciaran Brady were among the Cavan scorers, with Barry Reilly and Martin Reilly also prominent, but Smith's goal in added time helped his team to a seven-point winning margin.
Saturday's All-Ireland Round 2A Football Qualifier results
Offaly 1-13  Kildare 1-15
Clare 1-12   Longford 2-12
Cavan 1-16   Roscommon 3-17