http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/33085977
BBC Sport - Argentina 0-0 Chile (1-4 on pens)

Chile secured the first major trophy in their history on home soil courtesy of a penalty shootout win over Argentina in the Copa America final.
Arsenal's Alexis Sanchez slotted in the winning spot-kick after Argentina's Gonzalo Higuain fired over and Ever Banega was denied by Claudio Bravo.
Higuain had earlier missed from close range after 90 minutes of few chances.
Sanchez came closest in extra time for Chile, who scored all four of their penalties in the shootout.
Where Chile held their nerve, Argentina wilted in the shootout at the end of a performance that fell well short of the heights they reached in their 
    
6-1 semi-final win over Paraguay.
Le Albiceleste are without a major trophy in the last 22 years since winning the 1993 Copa America in Ecuador.
"It was a game in which the destroyers kicked, grappled and smothered the playmakers. Messi wasn't given a yard of space as Chile stifled Argentina's attack. In that regard Jorge Sampaoli's game-plan worked perfectly. Apparently he'd studied hours of tapes of Barcelona in action to discover the key to stopping Messi.
"But throughout the tournament the Chileans have shown a strong will-to-win, which at times could even be described as dirty. Jara's finger the perfect case in point. They out-fought Uruguay and stamped out Argentina's goal menace."
Chile's victory brought an end to almost a century of competing in the Copa America without claiming a title.
They were one of four teams who played in the very first tournament in 1916 in Argentina but the best they had done until this year was runner-up, which they have achieved on four occasions (1955, 1956, 1979 and 1987).
Chile won their first Copa America after 173 games played in this competition, dating back to the first tournament in 1916.
The Estadio Nacional Julio Martinez Pradanos was a cauldron of noise on Saturday, full of flag-waving red-clad home supporters, some of whom had reportedly paid up to $25,000 for tickets.
They were not treated to a dazzling attacking display from their side but rather one of drive, discipline and, ultimately, composure, epitomised by the industrious and energetic Sanchez and Charles Aranguiz.
Both sides scored their opening penalty, with Matias Fernandez emphatically finding the top corner for Chile before Lionel Messi sent his kick low into the bottom corner.
Alexis Sanchez scored the winning penalty in Santiago