BBC Sport - Chelsea v Swansea City

Venue: Stamford Bridge Date: Saturday, 8 August
Diego Costa remains a fitness doubt for Chelsea after sitting out the Community Shield last weekend.
Loic Remy and Radamel Falcao both played a half each in that match and are vying to start if Costa is not available.
Jordi Amat is Swansea City's only doubt with a foot problem.
Summer signing Andre Ayew is likely to start but fellow newcomers Kristoffer Nordfeldt, Franck Tabanou and Eder are expected to be among the substitutes.
What do you think the score will be in this match? Test your expertise by playing our game and seeing how many results you can predict correctly on the opening weekend of the season.
Play the game
Steve Wilson:

     "Garry Monk did his best Catherine Tate face when he was asked how it felt to be facing the champions on the opening day of the season.
"Monk's reply could almost have been: "Am I bovvered?"
"Anyway, why should he be? Swansea won at Old Trafford on the opening day of last season.
"However, Chelsea put nine goals past the Swans last season and their only league win at Stamford Bridge came in 1925 when they were still called Swansea Town.
Chelsea's loss in the Community Shield was followed by defeat to Fiorentina but I'm not sure Jose's all that bovvered either - it's Swansea that counts."
Twitter: @SteveWilson1967
"I don't think Chelsea will put in the sort of dazzling performance they were producing at the start of last season, especially with Diego Costa out. I am expecting them to be functional against Swansea rather than full of flair."
Predictions: Lawro v Graeme Swann
Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho:

     "The real football starts tomorrow, I think everybody's waiting for it.
"Let's try to be a good team and be here in March or April speaking about winning something. I believe the teams who aren't title contenders will be stronger, the gap between the top and others will be shorter."
Swansea City manager Garry Monk:

     "We conceded nine against them (Chelsea) last year, which wasn't good enough at all. There weren't many times I could say I was gutted with a performance but the one at home was one of them.
"But Jose is tactically one of the best managers in the league. He's very clever in his approach, his team is so adaptable in playing different ways and brilliant to watch.
"They've set the standard for everyone and when I come up against Jose I know I'm in for an interesting afternoon."
Head-to-head
Chelsea
Swansea City