http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/33397931
BBC Sport - Women's World Cup 2015: Which England players impressed?

England boss Mark Sampson came to Canada with the aim of winning the Women's World Cup - and although his side fell short of that target they did make history during their month-long stay.
They achieved the best performance by a senior England side since the 1966 World Cup winning team by 
    
defeating Germany for the first time 

     on Saturday to ensure that they finished the tournament in third place.
The squad caught the attention of the nation through their committed displays and the strength of their character, with 
    
several players overcoming adversity 

     to succeed in Canada.
So how did the manager and the players rate over the course of the tournament?
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Awesome England deserve win - Mark Sampson
He has been called the 'tinkerman' and compared to the likes of Rafael Benitez, Jose Mourinho and Sam Allardyce, but the former Bristol Academy boss with no previous World Cup experience has undoubtedly been one of the success stories during England's journey.
England failed to get out of their group at Euro 2013 under Hope Powell and squad morale was at a low ebb. Sampson has managed to get his squad pulling in the same direction and the victory over Germany - a team that defeated England 3-0 last November - shows how quickly the Welshman has learned about the international game.
His insistence on changing the team and tactics has led to mistakes but he has also been astute enough to correct them during matches and saw his side gain momentum throughout the tournament before they were cruelly beaten in the semi-final by Japan.
Sampson made no apologies for his team playing in a direct manner. Success was more important than tactics when it came to inspiring a nation, he said, and in that sense, he was right. If there was one annoyance, it was his economy with the truth concerning player injuries. As per his favourite saying, he has put England "in a good place".
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Women's World Cup 2015: Karen Bardsley error gives Canada lifeline
A mixed tournament for the United-States-born goalkeeper, whose mistakes contributed to goals for Mexico and Canada, while some will say the 30-year-old could have done better for goals conceded against France and Norway too.
However, the Manchester City goalkeeper made a crucial save against Colombia just before half-time with England 2-0 up and against Norway when the last-16 tie was in the balance. She also made crucial saves in the third-place win over Germany.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Bassett: I'm heartbroken and devastated
Notts County centre-back Bassett will be remembered for her 
    
injury-time own-goal 

     in the defeat against Japan, yet her team-mates are correct in saying it will not be what comes to define one of the strongest personalities in the squad.
The victory over Germany ensured the 31-year-old finished the tournament with a smile on her face after a typically rugged performance where she stood up to the world's number one team.
England players celebrate after Lucy Bronze scored a spectacular goal against Norway