BBC Sport - British Championships: No problem with 'plastic Brits' - Cram

Venue: Birmingham. Dates: 3-5 July
Coverage: BBC Two and online on Sunday, 5 July 14:20-18:00 BST
The country's elite athletes face a make or break weekend at the British Championships as they attempt to qualify for the World Championships in Beijing in August. BBC athletics commentator Steve Cram has assessed the debate over 'plastic Brits' which has re-emerged, the events to look out for this weekend and focused on two major names in the sport - Mo Farah and Usain Bolt - who have contended with difficult seasons.
This weekend, Zharnel Hughes 


     - born in the British overseas territory of Anguilla - and the United States-born trio of Cindy Ofili, Shante Little and Montene Speight will all take part at the British Championships for the first time after being ruled eligible to compete for Team GB.
I've got no problem with this 'plastic Brits' issue, which we've been through before. It's not a real issue, because as long as they're eligible, they are free to compete for Great Britain. There are many sportsmen and women who weren't born in this country who compete for GB in other sports.
The whole idea of who is eligible from a nationality perspective is silly. If they are eligible, then they are eligible. I could go back to the Zola Budd thing in the 1980s - she came from South Africa and 
    

ran for Britain at the 1984 Olympics.
Some might argue that they didn't train in the British system but, in fact, there's no system here. There's a funding programme, but below that there isn't anything. People can learn to be an athlete in any part of the world. There's no investment in athletics clubs in Britain, which means only those who run here are eligible to run for Britain.
I guess the big issue is that newcomers arriving puts others in the team under a lot of pressure. But that can happen if an athlete pops up from anywhere - it doesn't matter where they were born.
If you think you were shoo-in to get into the team and somebody else pops up you weren't expecting, then you have to deal with that.
By the way, nobody complained that Lorraine Ugen developed into a world-class long jumper while at college in United States. Similarly, Chris O'Hare spent four years at college in the US, developing into a world-class 1500m runner. No one complained about that, either.
Shara Proctor holds the British long jump record, which stands at 6.95m