BBC Sport - Formula 1 gossip: Button, Red Bull, Coulthard, Hamilton

Venue: Silverstone: Dates: 3-5 July
Coverage: Live on BBC TV, Red Button, Radio 5 live, 5 live sports extra, online, mobile, the BBC Sport app and Connected TV. Full details here
Aston Martin are believed to be negotiating a return to Formula 1 in a tie-up with Red Bull for next season that would bring the team Mercedes engines. 

(Autosport)
Jenson Button says he and Fernando Alonso know they have to take McLaren's current problems on the chin if they ever want to return to the front of the grid. 
    

(ESPN)
David Coulthard believes champion Lewis Hamilton is Formula One's only superstar at the moment and his rebellious image is doing wonders for the sport. 

(Mirror)
Hamilton was in superb form on Saturday, qualifying for Sunday's race in pole position. Later on, he 
    

tweeted a picture  


     of himself and his dog Roscoe on board a motorcycle. Roscoe is used to a life of luxury and accompanied Hamilton to last year's BBC Sports Personality of the Year awards.
Lewis Hamilton says he is fed up of being judged against drivers of the past. "A lot of fans like to compare, like 'Jim Clark did this, or James Hunt did that' and I'm like 'so?' This is my time and this is how I do it." 

(BT Sport)
F1 boss Bernie Ecclestone is hoping Nico Rosberg can continue his recent run and maintain the pressure on Mercedes team-mate and championship leader Lewis Hamilton. "It is up to Nico to save this championship. We need him to keep things alive," he said. 
    

(Times)
Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo is just the 13th best paid driver on the grid on $2.28m (£1.46m) - less than both Lotus and Force India drivers - according to Business Book. 

(Velocity)
Romain Grosjean had a tough time of it in second practice, beaching his Lotus in the gravel. 
    

He remains positive, though...
Jenson Button will not switch to Formula E when his Formula 1 career comes to an end, saying it lacks the 'smell, sound and speed' of proper racing. 

(Daily Mail)
Donuts and drifting: Lewis Hamilton takes some of his team for a drive