http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/features/33334131
BBC Sport - Lewis Hamilton column: Silverstone, Senna and Hendrix

Venue: Silverstone Dates: 3 July to 5 July
Coverage: Live on BBC TV, Red Button, Radio 5 live, 5 live sports extra, online, mobile, the BBC Sport app and Connected TV. Full details here
After a busy week which featured a guest appearance on The Graham Norton Show and 
    
a trip to Glastonbury,  

     Lewis Hamilton has answered the best of the #AskLewis questions you sent to the BBC Sport website.
In the run-up to Sunday's British Grand Prix, the world champion told us what he enjoys about racing at home, his dream team-mate, favourite grand prix and the other Formula 1 team he would like to drive for.
What is your favourite thing about racing at Silverstone

    ? - 

 Laurence Taylor
"Getting to see the fans. Home crowd."
If you could go back and relive one grand prix, which would it be?

     - 

 Simon Lee Harrop
"It will always be Abu Dhabi 2014, when 
    
I won my second world championship."
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Highlights: Lewis Hamilton wins second drivers' World Championship
Why did you change your helmet colour to white?

     - 

 Cosmos
"I changed it because my team-mate Nico Rosberg had a yellow helmet at the time and because yellow just did not go with Petronas green on the car."
What is your greatest ever overtake?

     - 

 Dani Lissoni
"Buckmore Park [a kart circuit in Kent] in 1996. I went into the last corner fourth and came out first, having gone around the outside."
Time in the car is limited so why did you skip testing last week, giving your main rival extra car time?

     - 

 Trina S
"I had doctors' appointments, just some personal things I had to get checked out."
Have you cleared the clutch problem that affected you in Austria? Your starts were great before they changed

    . - 

 Sabine
"A lot of investigation has gone into it. There was a problem with the car and they have worked hard to fix it."
Lewis Hamilton would have liked to have had three-time world champion Ayrton Senna as a team-mate