BBC Sport - Fantasy Premier League: How to become a champion

Have you picked your Fantasy Football team for the new season yet?
Last season, 36-year-old Simon March, who works in digital marketing, beat more than 3.5 million others to the Premier League title. Here he shares his secrets, including his 10 top tips for picking and managing a winning side.
How long per week do you spend on Fantasy Football?
I try not to over-think it but it's often where my mind wanders when I'm stuck in traffic or queuing for something. It's also a great source of office and pub banter. It probably gets discussed more than real football now.
How did you get into it?
This will be my seventh season but I only really started playing properly a few years ago when I joined a work mini-league. It was taken quite seriously as, along with bragging rights, it had an entry fee and prize money. I'm not sure they're going to invite me back again this year…
Who is best bargain/unknown you have had?
Dusan Tadic was a major differential for me early in the season but John Terry was probably the real game-changer when he scored three goals in four games over Christmas. I remember thinking he was 'due a goal' beforehand. It's one of those nice but rare occasions when a gut prediction like that actually pays off.
Top picks:

     Wayne Rooney, Diego Costa, Jordan Henderson, David Silva
Having already delivered season after season, Chelsea's 
        Eden Hazard

     and Manchester City striker 
        Sergio Aguero

     practically pick themselves, as might 
        Alexis Sanchez

     after his explosive debut season at Arsenal.
However, with doubts over whether the latter two will start the season following their late return from the Copa America in Chile, I think 
        Wayne Rooney

     offers a great early season captaincy option at Manchester United. Now stationed up front, Rooney has an excellent goalscoring record against each of his first three opponents - Tottenham, Aston Villa and Newcastle.
Fit-again 
        Diego Costa

     is hard to ignore after delivering so consistently for Chelsea last season and 
        Jordan Henderson

     looks good value as he appears poised to inherit set-pieces in the wake of Steven Gerrard's departure at Liverpool.
Finally, 
        David Silva's

     consistency and all-round involvement in Manchester City's attacking play makes him another intuitive selection.
Worth a look:

     Callum Wilson, Troy Deeney, Aleksandar Mitrovic, Patrick Bamford, Matt Ritchie, Memphis Depay, Dimitri Payet, Mesut Ozil, Yaya Toure, Juan Mata, Diafra Sakho
There is plenty of potential value among the players new to the Premier League this season, especially in the forward positions.
Bournemouth's 
        Callum Wilson

     and Watford's 
        Troy Deeney

     (both Championship) and Newcastle's 
        Aleksandar Mitrovic

     (Belgian top flight) are arriving off the back of prolific goalscoring seasons in their respective divisions.
Chelsea loanee and Championship Player of the Season 
        Patrick Bamford

     will gain lots of attention if he can cement a spot up front in Alan Pardew's increasingly attacking Crystal Palace team.
Finally, in the budget-friendly category, with set-pieces and plenty of attacking threat, Bournemouth midfielder 
        Matt Ritchie

     could be the one to watch if he can reproduce last season's Championship title-inspiring form in the Premier League.
In the more premium category, new signings 
        Memphis Depay

     and 
        Dimitri Payet

     bring flair, creativity and an eye for goal to Manchester United and West Ham respectively. How quickly they adapt to the Premier League, however, will be critical in assessing their value as assets.
Among the already established Premier League players, I'll be monitoring Arsenal's 
        Mesut Ozil, Yaya Toure

     at Manchester City, 
        Juan Mata

     at Manchester United and West Ham's 
        Diafra Sakho

     particularly closely. All four could be poised for a big season ahead and will each offer good value if they can deliver.
Cheap defenders who play in teams that prioritise defence will often score more points than costlier alternatives who play in more attack-minded teams. Equally, a good striker in a team which generates a lot of chances may score more goals than a star striker in a more defence-minded team.
The nature of a team can limit or amplify a player's point-scoring potential. Reviewing the overall characteristics and strengths in teams before you decide which players to select can help you to identify players with great scoring potential and to uncover undervalued assets.
Everton full-back Leighton Baines scored two goals, provided nine assists and kept nine clean sheets last season