http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/33816902
BBC Sport - Man Utd: David De Gea not the same as last season - Van Gaal

Manchester United boss Louis van Gaal says keeper David De Gea is not "capable" of playing in Saturday's season opener against Tottenham.
De Gea, 24, 
    
reportedly wants to move to Real Madrid 

     with speculation over his future persisting all summer.
"We've observed him in training and matches and he's not the David De Gea of last year," said Van Gaal.
New signing Sergio Romero, 28, Anders Lindegaard, 31, or Sam Johnstone, 22, could replace De Gea.
My Premier League Life - see stats of your lifetime
Play our Premier League Predictor game
Who will finish where? Phil McNulty's preview
Get Inspired: How to get fit like the pros
Lindegaard and Johnstone travelled on the club's summer US tour, but neither played for United last season. Lindegaard did not feature once in the previous campaign, while Johnstone has yet to make his United debut.
United also have Victor Valdes, but the 33-year-old Spaniard has been made available for transfer after 
    
Van Gaal claimed he "refused to play" in the reserves.
"De Gea tries and does his utmost best, but it's a difficult situation," added Van Gaal.
"Now we have to play our first match and I want players who can focus only on the match and he is not capable to do that.
"He shall not play."
De Gea has made 175 appearances since joining United from Real's city rivals Atletico Madrid in 2011.
United are believed to be holding out for a deal that includes Real defender Sergio Ramos coming to Old Trafford.
Angel Di Maria has written an open letter to United supporters, following his £44.3m move to Paris St-Germain.
The 27-year-old Argentina midfielder 
    
conceded his one season at Old Trafford "did not go well".
"I can guarantee you it was not for trying," he said in his letter.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Di Maria will be a big loss - Van Gaal
"I did my best but football is not like maths: often a lot of things out of our control affect the way we feel and the way things turn out.
"I am sorry it did not work out as I would have wished in this amazing, huge club."
Van Gaal, who will reportedly 
    
sign Barcelona's Pedro  

     as a replacement, said Di Maria's exit would be a "big loss".
But the United boss suggested Di Maria may have struggled to adapt to life in the Premier League.
"I want more attackers with speed and creativity," he said. "Di Maria is one of those players so we have to look for that kind of player, but they have to have the talent to cope with the English rhythm and that's difficult to find.
"That's why players are not having success in this competition - because of the rhythm of the game and the English culture is a different culture to the Latin culture."
Ashley Young played 29 times last season