http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/33729044
BBC Sport - Scottish Championship: Rangers 3-1 St Mirren

Mark Warburton's Rangers reign continued with another dominant win as St Mirren were dispatched in the opening game of the league season.
Lee Wallace had the home side ahead early when he fired a loose ball into the roof of the net and raced through unmarked to double his tally.
Cameron Howieson exploited a gap in the defence to pull one back, but Steven Thompson passed up the chance of an equaliser with a missed penalty.
Dean Shiels scrambled Rangers' third.
You would not have known Rangers had lost the play-off to Motherwell just over two months ago, with Ibrox packed with fans once more excited by their team's prospects under the new manager.
And the old stadium was bouncing when Wallace blasted the home side in front within the opening minutes.
St Mirren players were looking for a free-kick when Jack Baird crumpled to the turf inside his own box, but Rangers played on and Wallace had the easy task of thumping the ball into the net.
Buoyed by the goal, Rangers continued to go forward at pace, pressing and harassing their opponents, with little troubling them at the back.
A second goal seemed inevitable and, shortly after Barrie McKay had volleyed over, Wallace grabbed his second.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Rangers start the new Scottish Championship season with victory over St Mirren at a packed Ibrox.
It was poor defending from the visitors; Jason Holt being allowed to knock the ball through for the Rangers captain, who ran into the box unchallenged and drove through the goalkeeper's legs.
St Mirren were in danger of being overrun, but their response was instant - Paul McMullan picking out the run through the middle of Howieson, who calmly slotted past Wes Foderingham.
It gave Ian Murray's men a foothold back in the game, but it did little to curb the home threat. Martyn Waghorn shot over and Holt had a right-footed effort turned round the post.
Wallace was instrumental in everything Rangers were doing. Flicking the ball past his man in his own half, he raced down the left before picking out Tom Walsh, whose strike from the edge of the area was just over.
A turning point of the game came when McMullan was brought down in the box by James Tavernier and referee Kevin Clancy had no hesitation in awarding St Mirren a penalty.
However, Thompson put his foot under the ball and sent it skywards.
Rangers needed to kill the game, but Nicky Clark, Waghorn and Tavernier all failed to beat goalkeeper Mark Ridgers with efforts.
Ridgers then denied David Templeton from close range when his header from Nicky Law's cross looked goal-bound.
Steven Thompson was dejected when his penalty went over the bar