
Venue: Vitality Stadium Date: Saturday, 8 August
New signings Max Gradel, Lee Tomlin and Sylvain Distin could start for Bournemouth on Saturday.
Harry Arter will miss the club's top-flight debut because of injury, while loanee Christian Atsu is a doubt.
New Aston Villa captain Micah Richards, Jordan Amavi and Idrissa Gueye are among the visitors' likely debutants.
The game may come too soon for Jack Grealish, Carles Gil and Carlos Sanchez because of a lack of fitness, while Jores Okore is out after knee surgery.
What do you think the score will be in this match? Test your expertise by playing our game and seeing how many results you can predict correctly on the opening weekend of the season.
Play the game
Jonathan Pearce:

     "Eighteen years ago, Bournemouth fans saved the club with a bucket collection at the Winter Gardens concert hall. They've survived administration, winding-up orders and the sell off of the stadium.  The club's amazing journey is the very stuff of fantasy football.
"But Tommy Elphick admits 'the fairy story has to stop here'. The team needs to get to work fast to make sure they stay up. They'll be targeting games like this for a win.
"Players who've longed for years to play at this level will be hungry to rip into a Villa side being rebuilt by Tim Sherwood.  The Vitality Stadium will be bedlam. Bournemouth can nick an historic win."
Twitter: @jpearcefootball
"This is a classic case of a difficult trip to a newly-promoted team on the opening day of the season for Aston Villa, and it won't help them that their manager Tim Sherwood will not know his strongest team yet either."
Predictions: Lawro v Graeme Swann
Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe:

     "We feel the team's ready. Now we've just got to go out and prove that we're good enough. We're going to be brave and we're going to try to take games to teams.
"That's our way, that's what we've become accustomed to, that's what our players expect us to do.
"We know it's going to be harder, we know there may be some bumps in the road for us. I think we're prepared for that."
Aston Villa manager Tim Sherwood:

     "It will be a carnival atmosphere. No one wants to go there for their first match but we'll go there and try and get a result.
"I want to improve on last year, which we certainly need to do if we're to stay in this division. The club have backed me well in this window. We've lost two important players but we've brought in a lot of new faces. It will take time to gel, we know that."
Head-to-head
Bournemouth
Aston Villa