
Chelsea begin their bid to win back-to-back titles for the first time since 2006 when the new Premier League season gets under way on Saturday.
The Blues will have to fend off challenges from Manchester City, Arsenal, Manchester United and Liverpool - who have all strengthened over the summer - and boss Jose Mourinho, 
    

who signed a new four-year contract on Friday, 


     expects the coming campaign to be one of the most competitive yet.
"Every club has very good players so I think it's difficult for the top teams in England because of the competitive nature," he said.
"None of the big leagues in Europe have started yet. Not Italy, not Germany, not Spain. So I think everyone is waiting for Saturday. Finally proper football starts."
This is set to be the most watched season in Premier League history, with matches broadcast in 212 territories and a global television audience of 4.7 billion.
Chelsea led from start to finish to win last season's Premier League title by eight points in the second year of Mourinho's second spell in charge at the club.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Jermaine Jenas: Jose Mourinho 'will fear' Arsenal challenge
There is time yet in the transfer window, but so far Mourinho has resisted the urge to significantly improve his squad, with former Manchester United loanee Radamel Falcao and goalkeeper Asmir Begovic the highest-profile additions.
However, with a unit packed full of international talent, including Eden Hazard, Cesc Fabregas and Diego Costa, they remain 
    

favourites for this season's title 


     with most bookmakers and pundits.
And with some of their rivals.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger believes that Chelsea and Mourinho - 
    

with whom he shares a spiky relationship 


     - are the ones to beat. However he adds that a better start from his own side could propel them above the Blues.
"Chelsea won it by a margin last year so they are the favourites," he said.
"Last year after 12 games we were 15 points behind Chelsea, and in the next 26 we took 58 points and Chelsea 55.
"So let's start strong this season and I believe we have the needed ingredients."
Mourinho's men start against Swansea at Stamford Bridge in Saturday's evening kick-off, while Arsenal host West Ham on Sunday lunchtime.
Ex-England striker Alan Shearer said on
    

 BBC Radio 5 live:  


    "Mourinho is the best manager. He makes up points. If he was in charge of any of the top four, I would put them favourites to win the title."
Predictor - can you guess the weekend's results?
Who will finish where? Phil McNulty's verdict
My Premier League life - your club in your lifetime
Watch: Ten big Premier League questions
Bournemouth, managed by Eddie Howe (pictured), are in the Premier League for the first time in history