BBC Sport - Get Inspired: How to get into cricket

Why get into cricket?
It's a game of brilliant intricacy and variety, and the sound of leather on willow is incredibly satisfying!
Who is it for?
Cricket has evolved in recent years and can be adapted for any age, ability, or type of weather.
Is there a cheap option?
For playground cricket, just grab a bat and a tennis ball. You can improvise to create some stumps.
What if I want a proper workout?
Cricket can be explosive, especially if you're a big-hitting batsman or a fast bowler in shorter formats.
Can I take it to another level?
Join a club to receive proper coaching and play competitively.
Is there a disability option?
Disability cricket is popular across the UK, with a growing number of local, regional and national teams.
Is there a family option?
Kid's cricket sets can be cheap: families can work off a big picnic by playing together in the park or at the beach!
Cricket is a social sport that is becoming more accessible due to a variety of formats - games can be played in a host of environments, ranging from 15 minutes to five days. It's a team sport, but key skills - batting, bowling, fielding - rely on individual gifts. Traditionally it's been played on a field with 11 players per side. While still popular, there are now many other ways to play newer, scintillating styles - within sports halls, local parks, playgrounds and, in some cases, cages! Get started in 
    

England and Wales  


    , 
    

Scotland,  


     or 
    

Northern Ireland.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
How to be a top batsman -Michael Carberry
If you're serious about your cricket and want to train on a regular basis, then joining a club is your best option - you'll receive professional coaching and guidance, and build your endurance and stamina as well as improving your coordination - all essential skills in cricket. Players can show promise from a very young age, so if you're talented, you'll likely compete in regional and national competitions. The ECB Cricket Network - 
    

Play Cricket  


     - is a mine of information to help you get involved with a club. There are many domestic competitions that clubs enter teams into from as young as nine years old. These take place across the UK, so you can also try your relevant governing body to find a club near you in 
    

Scotland, 
Northern Ireland  


    ,  
    

England and Wales.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
"It's great to get the boys 'out'!"
There's been a thrilling transformation in the last 20 years: more than 600 clubs in the UK now offer cricket to women and girls. Whether you just want to play for fun or be right up there challenging for honours, there's a place for everyone. To start playing, contact the ECB 
    

in England and Wales;  


     in Scotland, 
    

Cricket Scotland  


     will tell you all about its initiatives as well as contact information if you want to join a club. in Northern Ireland, contact the 
    

Northern Cricket Union.
Explosive action and lurking suspense… it's a Hollywood version of cricket! The short format (where two teams have a single 20-over maximum innings each) was created to provide a fast-paced version of the game to attract a fresh crowd, and it's been a success. For information on how to get involved contact your local club in 
    

England, Wales, 
Scotland  


     or 
    

Northern Ireland.  


     The ECB also offers a version of Twenty20 called 
    

'Last Man Stands'  


     which caters for those who are too busy for traditional cricket. Each team consists of eight players and sides can only be bowled out when all eight players are dismissed. It's a great cardiovascular workout, with shorts bursts of sprinting and throwing.
Truth is, the sun doesn't always shine in the UK - cricket can be rained off. But there are several variations of indoor cricket to fall back on. Soft ball indoor cricket is played on a specially-designed 'tension net' court with a softer leather ball and in teams of eight: it's for those with no experience. The 'hard ball' version is aimed at people who have played before: often club cricketer's play in the winter as it gives players the opportunity to keep their fitness and skill levels up through the off season. For details in England and Wales 
    

click here.  


     If you live elsewhere in the UK, contact your local club or sports centre for more information.
Cricket can be complex, especially Test cricket. But quick, simple, engaging and informal variations have been developed, so if you're new to the game of cricket and looking to learn the basics - or you're simply looking for a fun way to stay fit and active - these options are for you. 
    

Easy Cricket  


     is an inclusive game that can be played with minimal equipment, across mixed abilities and genders. A popular form of easy cricket for children is 'Kwik Cricket', which focuses on developing skills while having fun. For more information visit 
    

the ECB's website  


     while 
    

Cricket Scotland  


     has its own game. For information in Northern Ireland contact your local club.
Whether you've played in the past or just have a keen interest in developing talent, coaching opportunities are always available. The 
    

ECB Coach Education initiative  


     supports the development of coaches at all levels of the game. 
    

Cricket Scotland  


     has all the information you need on how to become a coach and the qualifications in Scotland. You can also try 
    

Sports Coach UK  


     for coaching opportunities across the country. To find out how to lend a hand to a club near you, find out about volunteering in 
    

England, Wales, 
Scotland  


     and 
    

Northern Ireland. 
Join In UK  


     can also help you find a club that needs your attention.
1. Go to our 
    

Activity Finder 


     to get into cricket near you.
2. Find your local club in 
    

England and Wales  


    , 
    

Scotland,  


     or 
    

Northern Ireland.
3. 
    

Share your story  


     and inspire others!
Are you inspired to try cricket? Or maybe you are an enthusiast already? Get in touch and tell us your story by tweeting us on 
@bbcgetinspired, 
 visit us on 
Facebook  
or email us on 
getinspired@bbc.co.uk.
See our full list of 
activity guides
 for more inspiration.