BBC Sport - World Cup warm-up match: Wales v Ireland (Sat)

Venue: Millennium Stadium, Cardiff Kick-off: 14:30 BST, 8 August
Coverage: Live on BBC One Wales, iPlayer, the BBC Sport website, Radio Wales and Radio Cymru
Wales coach Warren Gatland's team shows 14 changes from their last match 
    

against Italy 


     in the 2015 Six Nations.
Ross Moriarty, Tyler Morgan, Eli Walker and Dominic Day will make their debuts in a team captained by Scott Williams.
For Ireland, Mike Ross and Jamie Heaslip are the only players retained from the 
    

win over Scotland in March.
Keith Earls and Donnacha Ryan will play their first Ireland games since March 2013 with wing 
    

Andrew Trimble 


     playing his first Test in over a year.
Wales:

     H Amos (Newport Gwent Dragons); A Cuthbert (Cardiff Blues), T Morgan (Newport Gwent Dragons), S Williams (Scarlets, capt), E Walker (Ospreys); J Hook (Gloucester Rugby), M Phillips (Racing Metro); N Smith (Ospreys), R Hibbard (Gloucester), A Jarvis (Ospreys), J Ball (Scarlets), D Day (Bath Rugby), R Moriarty (Gloucester Rugby), J Tipuric (Ospreys, vice-capt), D Baker (Ospreys).
Replacements: 
    R Evans (Scarlets), K Dacey (Cardiff Blues), S Andrews (Cardiff Blues), J King (Ospreys), T Faletau (Newport Gwent Dragons), Ll Williams (Cardiff Blues), G Anscombe (Cardiff Blues), M Morgan (Bristol Rugby).
Ireland:

     F Jones (Munster); A Trimble (Ulster), K Earls (Munster), D Cave (Ulster), F McFadden (Leinster); P Jackson (Ulster), E Reddan (Leinster); J McGrath (Leinster), R Strauss (Leinster), M Ross (Leinster); I Henderson (Ulster), D Ryan (Munster); J Murphy (Leinster), T O'Donnell (Munster), J Heaslip (Leinster, capt).
Replacements:
     R Best (Ulster), D Kilcoyne (Munster), M Bent (Leinster), D Tuohy (Ulster), C Henry (Ulster), K Marmion (Connacht), I Madigan (Leinster), S Zebo (Munster).
The last time the teams met Wales ended Ireland's Six Nations Grand Slam hopes in a 
    

titanic 23-16 win 


     at the Millennium Stadium.
But only three players who started that day will be on the field at kick-off this time as coaches Gatland and Joe Schmidt assess their resources ahead of the World Cup in September.
It's a measure of the relative experience of Ireland's squad that, even with the raft of changes, there are no uncapped players among the 23 selected.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Wales coach Warren Gatland reveals his Millennium Stadium roof banter with his Ireland counterpart Joe Schmidt.
By contrast, Wales have two players on the bench - Kristian Dacey and Gareth Anscombe - who have yet to play in an international, in addition to the four in the starting team.
Wales coach 
    

Gatland says there is a lot to play for.
"There's a chance for some of the fringe players and even the more experienced players to go out there and perform," he said.
''The other thing, too, is that if you want to impress, in front of 75,000 people with the roof closed at home, then there's no better opportunity.
''I'm trying to give these players the best possible chance to go out there and perform.''
Gatland and his Ireland counterpart Schmidt 
    

discussed their team selections 


     before announcing their line-ups, and have agreed that the Millennium Stadium roof will be closed.
The Millennium Stadium will host Wales' Pool A matches against Uruguay on 20 September and Fiji on 1 October as well as Ireland 's Pool D matches against Canada and France - when the roof will be closed.
When the teams met in the 2015 Six Nations, Schmidt had insisted the roof should be open.
Joe Schmidt (left) was Leinster coach before his appointment as Ireland head coach in 2013