http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-league/33774272
BBC Sport - Super League Super 8s: Castleford Tigers 36-30 Hull FC

Castleford (16) 36
Tries: Shenton 4, Gale, Gibson Goals: Gale 6
Hull FC (18) 30
Tries: Whiting, Rankin, Michaels, Lineham, Logan Goals: Sneyd 5
Michael Shenton scored four tries as Castleford moved level on points with fourth-placed Huddersfield in Super League with victory over Hull.
Centre Shenton ran in a first-half hat-trick to revive the Tigers, who trailed 12-0 after five minutes through scores from Richard Whiting and Jordan Rankin.
Steve Michaels and Tom Lineham restored Hull's lead.
But Shenton's fourth plus scores from Luke Gale and Ashley Gibson helped Cas win a thriller.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Radford on Castleford v Hull FC
Jack Logan crossed for Hull with two minutes remaining to make it a nervy finale for the hosts, but Tigers held on to boost their hopes of a top-four finish and a place in the play-offs at the end of the Super 8s phase.
Hull, seventh in the table and six points off fourth place, had made the perfect start, Whiting and Rankin's quickfire converted tries seemingly giving them control, before Shenton's treble turned the game around.
Michael Shenton's four tries took his tally up to 13 for the season so far, having not crossed since 11 June.
His quadruple equalled the club record for the number of tries scored in a Super League game.
Michaels collected a superb pass from Marc Sneyd to score in the corner right on half-time, before Lineham ran the length of the field to extend Hull's lead after the break.
But Castleford were back in front just after the hour mark thanks to Shenton and Gale, before Shenton had a fifth score ruled out for a forward pass.
And when Gibson capped his 150th career appearance with a try, the win was secured, despite Logan's late consolation for Hull.
Castleford: 

    Roberts; Gibson, Webster, Shenton, Carney; Finn, Gale; Lynch, McShane, Millington, Holmes, Moors, Massey.
Replacements:

     Milner, Cook, McMeeken, Springer.
Hull:

     Rankin; Lineham, Sa, Logan, Michaels; Sneyd, Abdull; Paea, Houghton, Watts, Whiting, Minichiello, Westerman.
Replacements:

     Thompson, Paleaaesina, Green, Yeaman.
Att:

     6,760
Referee:

     Robert Hicks.