BBC Sport - British Grand Prix: Lewis Hamilton wants Silverstone win for fans

Venue: Silverstone Dates: 3 July to 5 July
Coverage: Live on BBC TV, Red Button, Radio 5 live, 5 live sports extra, online, mobile, the BBC Sport app and Connected TV. Full details here.
Lewis Hamilton says he wants to win the British Grand Prix for the 140,000 fans who are expected at Silverstone for the race on Sunday.
The world champion starts from pole after beating Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg in qualifying.
It is the eighth pole in nine races this season for Hamilton, who has a 10-point championship lead over Rosberg.
"Today hopefully I did them proud and I am going to do everything I can to make them even happier tomorrow," he said.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
'Special' home pole delights Hamilton
Hamilton beat Rosberg by 0.113 seconds to huge cheers from the crowd of 105,000 on Saturday.
A victory on Sunday would be his fifth this season and his third at his home race after previous triumphs in 2008 and 2014.
"Every year I have come here it has always been special," Hamilton said.
"What's really encouraging is you see such a large group of people and so much support and you realise no matter whatever negative comment or opinion there may be at a particular point during the year, these fans are avid racing fans and they are here no matter what.
"That is great to see. I am so grateful to see the sheer support there is here for the Brits."
Hamilton took pole despite a difficult weekend. He struggled in Friday practice but Mercedes found some problems with the set-up of his car overnight and he was much happier on Saturday morning.
"Silverstone is one of the few truly iconic venues still surviving on a Formula 1 calendar increasingly dominated by antiseptic modern autodromes.
Although comprehensively revised and updated for the 21st century, Silverstone is still recognisably the same place that hosted the very first F1 World Championship race in 1950.
In the Becketts complex of sweepers and the ultra-fast Copse, it has some of the greatest corners on any race track anywhere in the world. To stand and watch there is to be awed by the capabilities of the cars and the skills and bravery of their drivers.
The British crowd is as enthusiastic and knowledgeable as you will find and the ingredients add up to one of the best weekends of the season, no matter what the weather."
However, Rosberg out-paced him in final practice and in the first two parts of qualifying before Hamilton put a lap together at the start of the top 10 shoot-out that beat the German by 0.113secs.
"This is a very tough circuit to really pinpoint to get it right," Hamilton said.
"For example, yesterday second practice was a wasted session because the car wasn't right settings-wise.
"My long run was a second off Nico's and then we find there were problems and fix them and this morning it was fine.
"That takes a step out of your stride. But I guess if it was easy, and it was just P1, P1, P1, it wouldn't be exciting.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Lewis Hamilton on 'living the dream'
"I like trying to rectify things and trying to improve and naturally it makes the day even more satisfying when you pull out that good lap."
Rosberg said that he thought he had done enough on his first lap in final qualifying to beat Hamilton.
The British Grand Prix has been won from pole position only three times in the last 17 years and Rosberg joked that he took solace from that statistic.
He added, with a smile: "That's incredible and that's why I was quite happy not to be on pole today because I know those statistics and the chances are much bigger to win the race from second!
"This week was one of the biggest differences on long-run pace. Lewis was struggling quite a lot so that's another hope I have, although his set-up has changed quite a lot since. Lewis has two laps on the tyres he is starting the race with and that is another small thing that can help."
The race starts at 1300 BST, with build-up on BBC One from 1215 BST.
This was Hamilton's third pole position at Silverstone, the previous two coming in 2007 and 2013