http://sports.yahoo.com/news/police-confirm-theyve-launched-investigation-against-kane-145524393--nhl.html
Blackhawks' Patrick Kane under police investigation

HAMBURG, N.Y. (AP) -- Chicago Blackhawks star Patrick Kane is under police investigation over something that may have happened at his home last weekend.
Hamburg Police Chief Gregory Wickett on Friday did not elaborate on the investigation, alluding to an ''incident that allegedly occurred'' at the player's offseason home in suburban Buffalo. Police are still gathering information and awaiting forensic tests, he said.
Wickett made a brief statement outside police headquarters but would not say if police have spoken with Kane or if the player is cooperating. He responded to one question, saying he did not know if Kane would appear at headquarters Friday. Wickett added there would be no further comment.
Word of the investigation surfaced Thursday, prompting responses from the NHL, Blackhawks and Kane's agent, Pat Brisson. The investigation began Sunday night, when several plainclothes officers searched the grounds and interior of the home overlooking Lake Erie. The 26-year-old Kane is from Buffalo and his family still lives in town.
Buffalo lawyer Paul Cambria, who has represented Kane in the past, declined comment in a text to The Associated Press on Friday.
The investigation comes after Chicago won its third Stanley Cup in six seasons. Kane was scheduled to enjoy his time with the Cup, and tour it around Buffalo on Saturday. Kane's whereabouts are unknown, and it's unclear if he will still host the Cup.
The front gates of Kane's home were closed Friday morning.
The Hockey Hall of Fame is responsible for overseeing the Cup while it's being hosted by players and team officials. Hall spokeswoman Kelly Masse referred questions to the Blackhawks, by saying they are responsible for scheduling each visit.
The Blackhawks have not returned numerous messages from the AP.
The NHL declined comment.
The Cup was already in the Buffalo-area on Friday for a private function at the home of former coach Scotty Bowman, who serves as a Blackhawks senior advisor, and whose son Stan is the team's general manager.
The Blackhawks said in a statement Thursday it was ''aware of the matter'' and gathering information. The club said it would be ''inappropriate'' to comment further. The NHL added that it, too, was ''aware of a police investigation'' and ''following developments.''
--
AP freelance photographer Gary Wiepert contributed to this report.