Greinke outduels Harvey in Dodgers' 4-3 win over Mets

LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Zack Greinke insists he just lives in the present, so don't ask him to consider his career-best scoreless streak of 27 2/3 innings or a possible start for the National League in the All-Star Game.
''I don't really think about it,'' he said after scattering four hits over seven scoreless innings in the Los Angeles Dodgers' 4-3 win over the New York Mets on Saturday night.
Greinke lowered his major-league best ERA to 1.48 in winning his second straight start. His longest previous scoreless streak was 24 innings from April 8-24, 2009, and it's the longest scoreless run by a Dodger since Clayton Kershaw's 41-inning streak last season.
''It's been pretty good,'' Greinke said about his first half of the season. ''Mainly just trying to stay one pitch at a time. I've had some good breaks with guys on base this year.''
Greinke outdueled the Mets' Matt Harvey, who dropped his second straight start and didn't complete at least six innings for the second time this season.
Greinke (7-2) struck out four and didn't walk anyone. He had a two-out single in the fourth inning, too.
''He's doing what he always does,'' Dodgers manager Don Mattingly said. ''He knows exactly where he wants to go with every guy. Zack has got the weapons and he does his homework.''
J.P. Howell got the final out for his first save since June 12, 2011.
''I felt pretty confident, especially when J.P. came in,'' Greinke said. ''Seems the tougher situation the better he does.''
Harvey (7-6) gave up seven hits and three runs in five innings and had a bloody nose. He struck out four and tied a career high with five walks while getting in bases-loaded jams in the second, third and fifth innings. His ERA ballooned to 3.11.
''I just had a tough time finding a rhythm,'' Harvey said. ''After the first inning I was pretty amped up and felt good. Then all of a sudden everything got out of whack and I couldn't find the strike zone, so it was a battle.''
The Mets closed to 4-2 with two outs in the eighth on Lucas Duda's RBI double and Wilmer Flores' RBI single after three Dodger relievers gave up a combined four hits. Pedro Baez, who allowed Flores' hit, gave up a sacrifice fly to Juan Lagares in the ninth that made it 4-3.
The Dodgers extended their lead to 3-0 with two runs in the fifth. Gonzalez's 15th homer and second in as many games landed in the pavilion in right field with one out before Alberto Callaspo's RBI single drove in Yasmani Grandal, who singled.
Jimmy Rollins' RBI groundout to first base put Los Angeles ahead 1-0 in the second, when Harvey walked two. He walked two more batters in the third, when the Dodgers failed to score after loading the bases.
Greinke retired 11 of 12 batters in his final stretch, with the only exception being Lagares who reached on a strikeout wild pitch.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Mets: OF Michael Cuddyer, who struck out as a pinch-hitter Friday after missing two games with a sore left knee, entered the game in a double switch in the eighth. Initially, manager Terry Collins had said he would rest Cuddyer another day as a precaution.
WAITING IN THE WINGS
Mets closer Jenrry Mejia will be eligible to return from an 80-game drug suspension on Tuesday when the team is in San Francisco. He was banned in April after testing positive for the performance-enhancing substance Stanozolol. ''I think it's important for him to say, 'Hey look, we're moving forward here. I'm helping move forward.' He's a big part of this team,'' Collins said. ''When you talk to him after he got suspended, he was heartbroken. Right now, we're scratching and clawing to stay in the race and get back in it legitimately, and if he can help us, more power to him.''
INDEPENDENCE DAY
The Dodgers improved to 10-6 on the holiday since 2000, while outscoring opponents 90-64. The Mets fell to 29-35 all-time.
UP NEXT
Mets: LHP Steven Matz (1-0, 2.35 ERA) starts the series finale a week after winning his major league debut against Cincinnati. He went 3 for 3 with four RBIs in his debut, joining Dwight Gooden as the only Mets pitchers to have three hits and four RBIs in one game.
Dodgers: RHP Mike Bolsinger (4-2, 2.76) will make his first career start against the Mets. He is 4-1 with a 2.25 ERA in five starts at home this season, limiting opponents to a .185 batting average.