New York City FC-Impact Preview

The Montreal Impact are on the verge of recording their second-longest home win streak and New York City FC defender Jeb Brovsky knows first-hand how hard it will be for his team to win at Stade Saputo.
Brovsky is an ex-Impact player who makes his return to Montreal on Saturday night with his former team seeking a fifth straight home victory.
Montreal (5-6-3) can move closer to matching the club-record six-game home win streak from July 8-Aug. 25, 2012. The Impact have outscored opponents 10-3 in this run.
That puts pressure on the defense of New York City FC (4-8-5) and Brovsky could be called upon to help slow down the Montreal attack. He played for the Impact between 2012-14 before they traded him to New York City last year.
Brovsky entered as a substitute in a 3-1 home victory over Montreal on June 13.
"It's going to be a battle because we want to get back on the right foot and they want to get back at us for the defeat last month," Brovsky told the club's official website. "It's tough to play a team again shortly after playing them, whether you win or lose. And Stade Saputo isn't an easy place to go to and get points."
NYCFC's victory over Montreal was part of a three-game win streak that was snapped with Sunday's 3-1 defeat to the arch-rival New York Red Bulls. Thomas McNamara gave New York City the lead in the sixth minute before the club allowed three second-half goals.
"As I told them already and as I told the press after the Red Bulls match – so I don't think it's any secret – that was the first game in my opinion where there was a little bit of quit in our players for spells," coach Jason Kreis said. "That's never going to be acceptable, so we'll see how they respond this weekend."
Now Kreis will have to make do without star midfielder Mix Diskerud, who is away with the United States national team.
The coach is unsure whether he will use his preferred 4-2-3-1 formation employed with Diskerud or change to a system with two forwards, with Adam Nemec or Patrick Mullins getting a start alongside Spanish star David Villa. Another option is to stick with Villa as the lone forward and insert midfielder Kwadwo Poku in the lineup.
Poku had a goal and an assist off the bench the last time these teams met.
Montreal will be without captain Patrice Bernier, who was sent off in last Saturday's 2-all draw at Philadelphia. Ignacio Piatti and substitute Jack McInerney had the Impact's goals.
"That shows the confidence we have in our team, in our ability to keep the ball, regardless of the numbers that we have on the field," forward Dominic Oduro said. "I think Jack scored an incredible goal against his former team. He was solid for us. Overall, we did well."
The Impact are also without midfielder Maxim Tissot, who is with Canada's national team.