Rangers score 2 in 9th to beat Orioles 2-0

BALTIMORE (AP) -- The Texas Rangers used a different approach to beat the Baltimore Orioles and win a series for the first time since mid-June.
Leonys Martin ended a scoreless duel with an RBI single in the ninth inning, and Texas carved out a 2-0 victory Thursday night behind a dominant pitching performance by Yovani Gallardo and three relievers.
After hitting 10 home runs in the first three games of the series, the Rangers failed to go deep against Kevin Gausman and four relievers.
It didn't matter, because Texas allowed only three hits - all of them singles - and used small-ball to grab the lead in the ninth.
''The ball didn't fly like it had been,'' Texas manager Jeff Banister said. ''Gausman had the game in control there for a while and really didn't give our guys a whole lot to hit. We struggled a little bit against him, but we were able to push a couple runs across and felt good about getting away with a W.''
After Shin-Soo Choo led off the ninth with a walk from Chaz Roe (2-1) and moved up on a bunt, Martin ended a 4-for-34 slump with a single to center.
''It was an exciting moment for me and for my team,'' said Martin, who came in batting .224. ''To find a way to win a ballgame today was exciting.''
Martin came home on a single by Rougned Odor.
Gallardo gave up two hits and three walks over six innings to extend his run of shutout innings to 29 1-3 - the longest streak in the majors this year and fourth-longest in franchise history.
''Today, honestly, was a little bit of a battle,'' he said. ''I was falling behind on the count with a bunch of guys.''
Keone Kela (5-5) got two outs and Shawn Tolleson worked a perfect ninth to earn his 12th save.
Playing in his second game since being sidelined for nearly a month with a strained left hamstring, Josh Hamilton went 1 for 4 with two strikeouts and flew out with the bases loaded in the eighth inning.
Texas won three of four after going 2-7 against the White Sox, Oakland and Toronto.
''It keeps us where we need to be and propels us on to some confidence at home,'' Banister said.
Both starting pitchers were exceptionally sharp in keeping the game scoreless.
Gallardo has not allowed a home run in 51 1-3 innings, dating back to May 24. In nine starts following a Texas loss, the right-hander is 6-0 with a 0.79 ERA.
Gausman allowed four hits, walked two and struck out seven in 6 1-3 innings. He was recalled from Triple-A Norfolk for his second start of the season.
''He gave us a chance to win,'' manager Buck Showalter said. ''We just obviously didn't put much together offensively.''
The Orioles missed two early chances to take the lead. In the first inning, Chris Davis lined into a double play with runners at the corners. In the third, Davis struck out with the bases loaded.
Texas got only one runner past first base until Odor led off the sixth with a liner over the head of center fielder Adam Jones. Vying for a triple, Odor was thrown out on a relay from Jones to shortstop J.J. Hardy to Manny Machado.
ROSTER MOVES
Rangers:  Activated RHP Neftali Felize from the 15-day disabled list and optioned starter Nick Martinez to Triple-A Round Rock.
Orioles: Optioned RHP Tyler Wilson to Triple-A Norfolk and recalled Gausman.
TRAINING ROOM
Rangers: LHP Matt Harrison (spine surgery) will be activated from the 60-day DL on Friday, according to general manager Jon Daniels. Harrison is expected to make his season debut Tuesday against Arizona, Banister said.
Orioles: 2B Jonathan Schoop (sprained right knee) was scheduled to continue his rehab assignment with Class A Frederick.
UP NEXT
Rangers: Hamilton faces his former team when Texas resumes division play at home against the Los Angeles Angels on Friday night. Hamilton played two seasons with LA before being traded back to the Rangers on April 27. ''It'll be good to see some of the guys,'' Hamilton said, ''and that's it.''
Orioles: Ubaldo Jimenez (7-3, 3.09) seeks to win his career-high fifth start in a row in the opener of a three-game series against the host Chicago White Sox, who will start John Danks (3-8).