
TORONTO (AP) -- Wade Miley warmed up in the bullpen, then he waited nearly half an hour to take the mound for the bottom of the first inning.
In between, Boston staked their starter to an eight-run lead.
David Ortiz and Hanley Ramirez had consecutive homers in the first, Xander Bogaerts had four hits and the Red Sox beat the Toronto Blue Jays 12-6 on Thursday night.
In danger of cooling down as the Red Sox racked up runs in the first, Miley played catch in the area outside the Red Sox clubhouse beneath the first base stands. Not once, but twice.
''I've never done that before,'' said Miley, who partnered up with fellow starters Eduardo Rodriguez and Justin Masterson for his impromptu throwing sessions.
Brock Holt also had four hits and Bogaerts drove in two runs as the last-place Red Sox took three of four from Toronto. Boston had a season-high 19 hits.
Leadoff man Mookie Betts had two hits before Miley (8-7) threw a pitch.
''What Mookie, Brock and Bogie were able to do tonight certainly set the tone for us offensively,'' manager John Farrell said.
Miley won for the third time in four starts and snapped a five-start losing streak against AL East opponents. The left-hander allowed four runs and seven hits in five innings, matching a career high with seven walks.
''It was a grind, no doubt,'' Miley said. ''I had really no fastball command.''
Miley said the long wait wasn't a factor in his wildness, adding that he was more than happy with the cushion.
''I'll take a back seat to that any day of the week,'' Miley said.
Ortiz hit a three-run homer in Boston's opening inning and Ramirez followed with a second-deck blast, the fourth time this season the Red Sox have gone back-to-back.
Blue Jays starter Matt Boyd didn't record an out in his second big league start, leaving after the first seven batters reached safely.
Boyd (0-2) allowed seven runs and six hits. He was replaced by Liam Hendriks after walking Mike Napoli.
''They were hitting everything he threw up there,'' manager John Gibbons said.
Hendriks didn't help out his teammate, giving up a two-run triple to the first batter he faced, Alejandro De Aza.
The Red Sox sent 12 men to the plate in the first and scored eight runs on nine hits, both season highs for a single inning. It was the most runs allowed by Toronto in one inning this season.
Boyd, who gave up three home runs to Texas in his big league debut last Saturday, saw his ERA rise from 5.40 to 14.85.
''Count on me learning from this and being better from this,'' Boyd said. ''It won't happen again.''
Dave Stieb is the only other Blue Jays pitcher to face seven batters without recording an out. Boston was also the opponent when it happened to Stieb in 1990.
Boyd was optioned to Triple-A Buffalo following the game, while reliever Todd Redmond was designated for assignment. The Blue Jays will make corresponding moves Friday.
Toronto cut the deficit in half with a four-run second, sending 10 men to the plate, but left the bases loaded when Chris Colabello grounded into a fielder's choice.
Colabello batted with the bases loaded again in the fourth but struck out to end the inning. He left nine runners stranded in his final four at-bats.
Gibbons was ejected for arguing in the fifth after Danny Valencia was called out trying to score from second on Travis' single to center. Umpire Gerry Davis called Valencia out and the call stood after replay review.
Many in the crowd of 29,758 cheered when Red Sox Holt fouled a ball off Davis' shoulder in Boston's three-run seventh.
Russell Martin and Valencia hit back-to-back homers off Craig Breslow in the ninth, the fifth time this season Toronto has hit consecutive home runs.
WILD THING
Blue Jays RHP Steve Delabar threw three wild pitches in the seventh.
FOUR PLAY
Blue Jays OF Kevin Pillar had a career-high four hits.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Red Sox: OF Shane Victorino (left calf) is expected to come off the 15-day DL Friday. ... OF Daniel Nava (left thumb) went 1 for 3 with two strikeouts as DH in his first rehab game at Triple-A Pawtucket.
Blue Jays: INF Steve Tolleson cleared waivers and was outrighted to Triple-A Buffalo.
UP NEXT
Red Sox: RHP Justin Masterson (3-2, 5.58 ERA) makes his second start since coming off the 15-day DL as Boston returns home to begin a three-game series against AL West-leading Houston. Masterson beat Tampa Bay last Sunday after missing 39 games with a sore right shoulder. RHP Dan Straily makes his season debut for the Astros.
Blue Jays: RHP Drew Hutchison (8-1, 4.99 ERA) goes for his third road win of the season as Toronto begins a three-game series at Detroit on Friday. Hutchison is 2-0 in eight road starts but has an ERA of 8.92 away from home. His opponent will be RHP Annibal Sanchez (6-7, 4.63 ERA).