Revolution-FC Dallas Preview

New England's place in the Eastern Conference standings has become increasingly precarious amid the club's recent struggles.
The Revolution try to end a three-game losing streak in Saturday night's visit to FC Dallas.
New England (6-7-6) sits in second place with 24 points, but the four teams below them in playoff position are all within three points and have at least two games in hand on the Revolution. Their breathing room has shrunk lately with only one win in their last 10 matches, giving up 18 goals in that span after yielding eight during a 5-2-2 start.
The three straight defeats have all been by 2-1 scores. Gillette Stadium had been a haven for the Revs, but their 17-match home unbeaten streak came to an end in a loss to Vancouver last Saturday.
"We have to be mindful of what it's going to take to get out of it, which is putting your head down, getting to work and not getting upset with each other or pointing fingers," coach Jay Heaps said. "Because really it's a collective group and there's mistakes made by everybody."
Dallas has dominated the series recently, winning the last three meetings in shutout fashion, including a 2-0 victory July 19 in last year's lone meeting. New England, which owns a minus-eight road goal differential, hasn't scored in four of its last five trips to Frisco.
While the Revolution have lost four straight on the road, Dallas is 5-1-2 at home and 14-2-3 since last June.
After ending a six-match winless stretch with a 2-0 home victory over Houston last Friday, Dallas (7-5-5) was embarrassed in U.S. Open Cup play, losing 6-2 at Sporting Kansas City on Wednesday. The club surrendered four goals to Dom Dwyer in matching its worst Open Cup defeat ever.
"There's no excuses," coach Oscar Pareja told the league's official website. "As the head coach, I have to take full responsibility for what happened tonight with the team allowing that many goals - especially with four of them on set pieces. It cost us a lot."
The six goals were the most allowed by Dallas since a 6-5 loss to Los Angeles in SuperLiga action July 31, 2007.
"I don't like to stick in the excuses and stick in the problems. We've got to move on and resolve it," Pareja said. "We don't have time to stay there."
The Revolution will be without defender Andrew Farrell after he received a red card for denying an obvious goal scoring opportunity against Vancouver with a hard foul. London Woodberry will likely shift from right back to the middle of the defense alongside Jose Goncalves. Woodbury, who has two assists in 12 matches, played eight matches for Dallas in 2013 but was waived before the 2014 season.
"Switching to the left a little bit won't be a big deal for me," he said. "There are obviously different roles and different objectives from each position, but I feel comfortable anywhere in the back."