
CARSON, Calif. (AP) -- When Timothy Bradley returns to the ring Saturday night, he's only taking on undefeated Jessie Vargas. He isn't there to pick a fight with Vargas' trainer, despite what he said during a video rant.
Bradley (31-1-1) steps back into the StubHub Center ring looking to bounce back from a winless 2014 and to reclaim the vacant WBO welterweight title he lost a year ago in a rematch with Manny Pacquiao.
He will have to get past the 26-year-old Vargas, the light welterweight champion moving up in weight and class. The WBO title is one of the belts Floyd Mayweather Jr. relinquished after he beat Pacquiao in May.
However, Bradley sounded like he was more interested in fighting Vargas' trainer after a recent online rant.
When Bradley arrived in the Los Angeles area recently, he was immediately asked about Erik Morales, and was informed the former Mexican champion turned trainer was talking trash.
''My state of mind, I wasn't all there,'' Bradley said Thursday during the final news conference. ''When I went off on a rant, it is what it is. I was like, 'I'll fight you at the end of the year.'''
Bradley joked that he was also hungry after the two-hour drive from his home in the Palm Springs area and he had to go to the bathroom.
But while Bradley spoke at the press conference, he told Morales that he respected him for all he's done for boxing and shook hands with the retired star.
Morales established himself as one of the finest fighters to ever come out of Mexico, winning world titles in four weight classes while establishing rivalries with Pacquiao and Marco Antonio Barrera. After the start of training camp, Vargas brought in Morales to take over his training from another retired great, Roy Jones Jr.
Vargas said Morales has helped him with his conditioning and certain technical aspects.
Bradley said Saturday's fight will be a proving ground for both himself and Vargas, who is unbeaten. He has yet to fight someone in the class of Bradley, who has been recognized as one of boxing's best pound-for-pound fighters for years.
''He's coming into the lion's den now,'' Bradley said. ''He's leaving the little puppies alone. He's coming up and fighting the real fighters. I'm a real fighter. I've made a name for myself in the sport by fighting the best. Now it's Jessie's turn to see if he can beat the best. That's what this fight boils down to.
''And it's my time to show the world and myself that I'm still one of the best in the game and I can beat Jessie Vargas, a young, hungry lion who is 26. When I was 26, you couldn't tell me nothing. I would have fought King Kong.''
Bradley won his first 31 professional fights, including wins against top opponents like Pacquiao and Juan Manuel Marquez. His wild brawl with Ruslan Provodnikov at the StubHub Center in 2013 was widely considered the fight of the year.
This will be Bradley's first time back at StubHub Center since the Provodnikov fight, where he suffered a concussion in the first round before pulling out a unanimous decision victory. Bradley said returning to Carson brought back ''horrific memories.''
But in 2014, Bradley failed to win a fight, losing his rematch to Pacquiao and taking a controversial draw against Diego Chaves.
To get back on the winning track, Bradley has to get through Vargas, a bright, young champion who will be moving up in competition.
''This is what I've been waiting for for years, to be shown worldwide and show them what I've been working for against a high-caliber opponent like Timothy Bradley,'' Vargas said.
The fight will also be televised by premium cable network HBO. It will be the 1,000th fight televised by HBO.