
By 
											Michael Deacon
6:01AM BST 04 Jul 2015
Comments
This week, the BBC rejected calls from the Prime Minister and 120 MPs to stop using the term “Islamic State”. David Cameron protested that the term helps validate the terrorists’ claim to statehood.
But Lord Hall of Birkenhead, BBC director-general, refused, on the grounds that the BBC must maintain “impartiality”. The alternative name “Daesh”, he explained, was “pejorative”, because it derives from an Arabic word meaning someone who crushes things underfoot. An unfair way, no doubt, to describe an organisation that destroys priceless ancient artefacts and burns its opponents alive.
Scrupulous impartiality of this kind is essential to the BBC’s news coverage.

Today this column publishes exclusive excerpts from the official BBC News Style Guide, which instructs reporters on how to avoid demonstrating bias when covering contentious issues.
The Three Little Pigs
Reporters should on no account use the pejorative term “Big Bad Wolf”, which causes considerable offence to the wolf community. Lupine leaders strongly dispute allegations that the conflict was initiated by the wolf. In any report on this issue, provide balance by including the opposing view, which is that the pigs planned all along to lure the wolf down the chimney and into the cooking pot, as part of a longstanding porcine campaign of persecution against wolves.
The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe
All reporters please note: the bulk of scientific opinion is that Jadis (always use this name rather than the pejorative “White Witch”) did not cause the Hundred Years Winter, and that it was instead the result of man-made climate change.
Star Wars
Viewers should be warned that the film franchise presents a highly subjective depiction of the Empire. Allow Darth Vader a right to reply after every broadcast.
Bambi
To maintain impartiality, remember to include the view of the Countryside Alliance, which has welcomed the cull of anthropomorphic baby deers’ mothers, believing it essential to prevent the spread of bovine TB in cartoon areas.
101 Dalmatians
Acknowledge that a spokesperson for Cruella de Vil describes opposition to turning kidnapped puppies into coats as “anti-business rhetoric”.
The Spy Who Loved Me
When reporting on the activities of Karl Stromberg, preserve impartiality by avoiding any implication that the destruction of the world is an illegitimate goal.
Paradise Lost
No reports on the conflict between God and Satan should suggest that the Devil is in some way “evil”.