
By 
											Christopher Hope, Chief Political Correspondent
10:00PM BST 03 Jul 2015
Comments
Lord Hall, the head of the BBC, is set to be questioned by MPs over his refusal to refer to the so-called Islamic State as “Daesh” because it is a biased term against the Jihadist group.
The Corporation’s director general is under fire for defying Prime Minister David Cameron over his demand that the BBC stops describing Isil as “Islamic State” and uses “Daesh” in reports.
Daesh is a commonly used Arabic abbreviation for Isil meaning “one who sows discord”.
Lord Hall (below) has rejected calls from 120 MPs to stop using the term Islamic State, saying calling it Daesh risks giving "the impression of support" for the group's opponents and "would not preserve the BBC's impartiality".
The committee is holding its first meeting to discuss a work programme on July 14. A key area will be the BBC, which has its royal charter renewed next year.
One source said the committee's chairman Jesse Norman MP wanted to examine whether “political correctness” at the BBC was stopping it using the description of Isil.

The source said this was an "intelligent discussion" which is "a perfectly proper question and one which the committee might pick up”.
Steve Rotherham, a Labour member of the committee, said: “It is an appropriate thing for us to discuss – what we are supposed to do is obviously reflect what the public are speaking about and not become too detached.”
Julian Lewis (below), the new Tory chairman of the defence select committee, said he would be writing to the Corporation urging it to reverse its position.
He told The Telegraph: “The BBC ought to hang its head in shame – they would never dream of taking this attitude if we were talking about the fascists or the Nazis and it is a sign of their pathetic political correctness that they cannot do something which in reality is not a term that is anything other than a description of what they claim to be.”
The BBC is worried about upsetting terrorists. How disturbing

He said the decision was helping the so-called Islamic State by not calling it Daesh, adding: “We are engaged in a counter propaganda war of ideas – and the British used to be rather good at this during the Cold War.
Earlier this week Chris Grayling, the leader of the House of Commons, said that the BBC should treat the terrorist organisation in the same way that it treated Nazi Germany during the Second World War.
David Jordan, the BBC's director of editorial policy and standards, said late on Friday: "There has been some misinterpretation of the BBC’s position on the so called “Islamic State”.
"Terminology can be debated - and we are well aware of the contentions around how this murderous group has branded itself– but we also believe that the British public is under no illusion as to what they stand for.
"We have used the name 'Islamic State' with a qualifier such as “so called”, and the same terminology has been used by the majority of the British media and indeed, until recently, many politicians.
"Suggesting that the BBC “wants to be fair to the so called “Islamic State” distorts the truth. Our aim, as always, is to report accurately and report the facts – nothing else.
"The BBC has at its cornerstone a commitment to democracy and its pillars. The BBC is no friend of authoritarian repression anywhere in the world and our history shows it."