BBC journalists to outnumber Liberal Democrat MPs at party conference by 25 to one - Telegraph

By 
											Christopher Hope, Chief Political Correspondent
4:00PM BST 02 Jul 2015
Comments
Liberal Democrat MPs are set to be out-numbered by journalists from the BBC at this party's conference in September by a ratio of 25 to one.
The LibDems said that 200 BBC staff have registered to cover the four day conference in September, despite the party having just eight MPs.
The number of journalists covering the conference in Bournemouth is set to be more than the 150 who were sent to cover the G8 conference in Lough Erne, Northern Ireland in 2013.
However the figure is fewer than the 270 BBC journalists who covered the World Cup in Brazil and the 200 BBC staff who went to the Glastonbury music festival last year.
It comes despite the BBC deciding to scale back dramatically its coverage of this year's Liberal Democrats' party conference to reflect the LibDems' diminished position after May's rout at the polls.
• Half of all Tory ministers have tried drugs, claims Norman Lamb
The party is currently leaderless after seeing its number of MPs slump from 57 to just eight in May's general election.
The LibDems' conference runs for four days in Bournemouth from September 19 and September 23.
The corporation has decided to axe the nightly conference round up programme, and will not be broadcasting regularly from the conference in September.
Instead the corporation's star political interviewer Andrew Neil is likely to intervew senior LibDem figures by satellite link from London.
A LibDem spokesman said the party was "delighted to welcome" so many BBC journalists to cover its conference in Bournemouth.
He added: “We’re on course to have more members at September’s conference than we’ve ever had, and more first-time new members than ever before. Our party is genuinely excited about heading to Bournemouth to launch our fightback and hold the Tory government to account.
“While the smart suits from Westminster may be turned off by opposition, our membership is growing – by more than half since polling day – and they are coming to conference to show that the liberal voice in Britain is strong and up for the fight."
But Jonathan Isaby, Chief Executive of the Taxpayers' Alliance, questioned the BBC's use of resources. He said: "Let's hope sense prevails between here and September. If the BBC really do send 200 staff to Bournemouth for a conference with 8 MPs, the world will have completely gone mad.
"Licence Fee payers deserve good quality coverage of politics, but it seems unlikely they would want quite such an army of employees to descend on the conference."
An ITN spokesman said the broadcaster was planning to send five journalists to cover the conference.
A BBC spokesman said: "We won’t be sending anywhere near 200 journalists, we’ve just registered plenty of names whilst it’s free so we don’t incur charges once we know who will actually be attending."