BBC News - Ed Miliband's shadow cabinet and ministerial teams

Here are details of Ed Miliband's ministerial team following his October 2013 reshuffle. This page is no longer being updated. For latest, click here.
The then 40-year-old beat older brother and former foreign secretary David to the Labour leadership in 2010 by the narrowest of margins, with the backing of the trade unions proving decisive. Attempted to shake-off his "Red Ed" tag by talking about the "squeezed middle" - but faced criticism the party lacked direction.
He launched a two-year policy review and consultation exercise on "refounding" Labour as a more modern and inclusive party. He faced criticism his leadership lacked edge, but won support over his reaction to the phone-hacking scandal - and his decision to burn the party's bridges with Rupert Murdoch's media empire.
The son of a Marxist intellectual and an MP since 2005, he was formerly an adviser to Gordon Brown. After entering Parliament, he enjoyed a rapid rise, becoming energy and climate change secretary in 2008. Married his long-term partner and mother of his two young children, Justine Thornton in 2011.
As Gordon Brown's chief economic adviser, he was at the chancellor's side for many years. After being elected an MP in 2005, he quickly became a Treasury minister but had to deny accusations of briefing against Tony Blair. Later he became schools secretary and narrowly held on to his seat in the 2010 election after being targeted by the Tories. Came third in the Labour leadership contest and was named shadow home secretary, despite being tipped for shadow chancellor. His public calls for Labour to change its position on the deficit were widely seen as having lost him the job. However, following Alan Johnson's resignation in January 2011, Mr Balls, at the age of 44, became shadow chancellor after all. Married to shadow cabinet colleague Yvette Cooper.
Popular throughout the party, the then 42-year old got the most votes of any MP in the shadow cabinet elections. A former journalist with the Independent, she was marked out early on as a rising star after being elected in 1997. Two years later, at the age of 30, she became a minister - the youngest at the time. She rose quickly up the ministerial ladder, working in the Treasury before becoming work and pensions secretary. Was urged by some to run for the leadership but decided against it, saying it was not the right time. Another of those seen as a potential shadow chancellor, she was in fact appointed shadow foreign secretary in Ed Miliband's first front bench line-up, but moved to the home affairs brief after Alan Johnson's resignation. Married to Ed Balls - they are the first married couple to serve as cabinet ministers at the same time. They have three children.
The former solicitor is one of only a handful of senior Labour figures who were close to both Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. Once Gordon Brown's speechwriter, he served as Scottish secretary and transport secretary under Tony Blair and international development secretary under Gordon Brown. Blamed by some for the election that never was in 2007 after urging Gordon Brown to call a snap poll. Aged 43, he co-ordinated the 2010 Labour general election campaign. Backed David Miliband in the leadership contest, chairing his campaign.
Historian Tristram Hunt, MP for Stoke-on-Trent Central since 2010, was promoted from shadow minister to shadow education secretary in the October 2013 reshuffle. He replaced Stephen Twigg. Mr Hunt is best known as a regular newspaper columnist, broadcaster and history lecturer. After taking a first-class degree in history from Cambridge University, he served as an exchange fellow at the University of Chicago before returning to Cambridge to complete his doctorate. He went on to work for Tony Blair in the Labour Party HQ on the 1997 General Election campaign and became a special adviser to former Science Minister Lord Sainsbury.
Turning 40 in 2010, Burnham was the youngest candidate in the Labour leadership contest, in which he came fourth. During the campaign, he argued that Labour had lost touch with its grass roots supporters and been dazzled by wealth. Like many senior figures in the party, he is a former special adviser. He rose quickly through the ranks after becoming an MP, serving as chief secretary to the Treasury, culture secretary and health secretary. He is a keen football player and avid Everton fan. Looked after education in Ed Miliband's first shadow cabinet before returning to his previous love, health in 2011.
Labour's deputy leader, she took over from Gordon Brown as acting leader in May 2010, capping a remarkable political comeback after she was sacked from Tony Blair's first cabinet in 1998 in a row over welfare reform. She worked her way back into favour and held a number of ministerial positions, including solicitor general, before beating Alan Johnson to the deputy leadership in 2007, at the age of 56. A longstanding campaigner for women's rights, she led a drive while in government to have domestic violence taken more seriously. Widely commended for her Commons performances as acting leader. Swapped briefs with Ivan Lewis in October 2011, having previously spoken on international development.
Shortly after returning from maternity leave she was promoted in October 2013 from the post of shadow treasury secretary having been shadow pensions minister in Ed Miliband's first shadow cabinet. The MP for Leeds West was first elected to Parliament at the age of 31 in 2010. A former Bank of England economist, Ms Reeves quickly became a strong voice in opposition and penned an entry in the Purple Book - produced by Lord Mandelson's Progress group - warning that Labour should address the UK's poor rates of saving with targeted tax relief. Oxford and LSE-educated, she also worked at the British Embassy in Washington and at Halifax Bank of Scotland before entering Parliament.
A former employment lawyer turned MP for the London constituency of Streatham, Mr Umunna has seen his stock rise inexorably since he was elected in 2010. A former PPS to Ed Miliband, he's already been a shadow business minister and also sat on the powerful Treasury select committee. He has attacked the coalition government for not doing enough to foster bank lending through its Project Merlin agreement. Just 31 when elected, he is already been talked of as a potential future leader.
As the son of former Labour Cabinet minister Tony Benn, the MP for Leeds Central is part of a political dynasty. Regarded as more pragmatic than his father, he was a union official and special adviser to then education and employment minister David Blunkett before becoming an MP in 1999. Well-regarded as international development and environment secretary under Gordon Brown despite having a generally low profile. At the age of 53 stood for the deputy leadership in 2007, coming fourth. One of Ed Miliband's primary supporters in the leadership contest.
One of the most high profile Muslim MPs, the then 40-year-old was an early backer of Ed Miliband to be Labour leader and went on to run his campaign. Before becoming an MP in 2005 he was a leading human rights solicitor and chairman of pressure group Liberty. He is a former government whip, local government minister and transport minister, who was promoted to shadow transport secretary when Lord Adonis stood down after the 2010 general election. Since taking on the justice brief, he has admitted Labour did not do enough to tackle reoffending but accused the coalition of focusing on cutting costs not crime. Leading light in Labour think tanks The Fabian Society and Progress.
Moving to defence from shadow Northern Ireland secretary in October 2013, the MP for Gedling held several ministerial positions in the last Labour government. One of those jobs was to look after policing - something he continued in Ed Miliband's first shadow cabinet. He was also minister for drugs and crime reduction under Tony Blair and sparked controversy, given that role, when he admitted having smoked cannabis as a student. Mr Coaker first entered Parliament in 1997, aged 43, having failed to win seats in both 1992 and 1987. Married with two children, he's also a former government whip.
The then 47-year old caused a stir in 2009 when she quit the government and accused Gordon Brown of regarding her and other senior women in the Cabinet as "window dressing". Like many leading female MPs, the former union worker entered Parliament in the 1997 Labour landslide. Responsible for the controversial eco-town project as housing minister before becoming Europe minister in 2008. Supported David Miliband in the leadership contest. A beneficiary of Ed Miliband's first reshuffle, she moved from the communities and local government brief in October 2011.
One of twin sisters in the shadow cabinet, the MP for Wallasey in Merseyside joined the Labour party when she was 17. The former union official was present on the Labour frontbench throughout the Blair and Brown years, without ever making the Cabinet. Her middle-ranking roles included social security minister and pensions minister. One of Labour's first openly gay MPs, she formed a civil partnership with her long-term partner in 2008. She supported David Miliband in the leadership contest. In Ed Miliband's 2011 reshuffle, at the age of 50, she was shifted to shadow leader of the Commons from shadow chief secretary to the Treasury.
Chris Leslie has been appointed shadow chief secretary to the Treasury in the latest Labour frontbench reshuffle. The former Bradford councillor was elected MP for Shipley - a Tory stronghold in Yorkshire - in 1997. He held several junior positions in the former Labour government within the Cabinet Office, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Department for Constitutional Affairs. He lost his Shipley seat in 2005, but re-entered Parliament in 2010 as MP for Nottingham East. He went on to serve as shadow financial secretary to the Treasury on Labour's front bench in the Commons.
Mary Creagh has moved from shadow environment secretary to shadow transport secretary in October 2013. When she was appointed to Ed Miliband's first shadow cabinet in October 2010, the then 42-year old had never held a frontbench role before. The Wakefield MP worked for the European Parliament and in academia before entering Parliament in 2005. A keen Europhile, she is fluent in French and Italian. Worked as parliamentary private secretary to Andy Burnham but voted for David Miliband in the leadership contest.
Maria Eagle moved in October 2013 to shadow environment secretary in a job swap with Mary Creagh. She is the sister of Angela but chose to support Ed Miliband in the leadership contest. Ms Eagle was a solicitor in Liverpool before entering Parliament in 1997. She held a series of ministerial positions under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, including children's minister and equalities minister. Like her twin, she lists cricket as one of her interests and is a proficient chess player.
Jim Murphy was moved - demoted in many people's eyes - in October 2013 from shadow defence secretary. He is a Blairite who worked on David Miliband's leadership campaign. He has held a string of government jobs since entering Parliament in 1997, after snatching the Conservative Party's safest seat in Scotland. He served Labour in power as a whip, Cabinet Office minister, welfare minister, Europe minister and, finally, at the age of 41, Scottish secretary. The East Renfrewshire MP is a former president of the National Union of Students, who lists his hobbies as model trains and playing football.
Previously an MSP, Ms Curran represented Glasgow Bailliestone since the Scottish Parliament's inception in 1999. But when that constituency was torn up in boundary changes she made the move to Westminster in 2010. Under her, Labour took back Glasgow East having lost it in a by-election defeat by the SNP in 2008. In Holyrood, she held various posts, including minister for communities, overseeing the executive's flagship anti-social behaviour laws. Before entering politics she was a lecturer in community education. The then 52-year-old took up her first full shadow cabinet role in October 2011.
Jon Trickett takes over from the departing Tom Watson as deputy Labour party chair. Gordon Brown's former parliamentary aide, Mr Trickett previously attended shadow cabinet as a junior minister and became a full member as shadow Cabinet Office minister in Ed Miliband's 2011 reshuffle. The then 61-year-old MP for Hemsworth took over the role from Tessa Jowell.
Michael Dugher became shadow Cabinet Office minister in October 2013 after attending the shadow cabinet as shadow minister without portfolio. Mr Dugher won the seat of Barnsley East at the 2010 General Election, after serving as chief political spokesman for the then Prime Minister Gordon Brown. Having joined the ranks of the Labour parliamentary party, he then became a parliamentary private secretary to the Leader of the Opposition, Ed Miliband. He is also currently vice-chairman of the Labour Party.
Gloria De Piero was appointed shadow women and equalities minister in the October 2013 reshuffle. The former GMTV political editor was an political admirer of Tony Blair and backed David Miliband as party leader. She was elected as MP for Ashfield at the 2010 General Election and appointed to a junior role in the shadow Department for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport. Since October 2011, Ms De Piero has served as a junior shadow Home Office minister.
Former BBC radio producer and special adviser who has risen quickly through the ranks. The then 40-year-old was elected in 2010 for Pontypridd, but previously stood unsuccessfully in the 2006 Blaenau Gwent by-election where he lost to independent Dai Davies. He supported Ed Miliband for the leadership and was given a role in his shadow team five months after entering the House, first as shadow Wales minister and then in the shadow Treasury team. This is his first shadow cabinet role.
Moving from shadow minister for international development in October 2013, former charity worker and chief executive of the Manchester Jewish Federation, Mr Lewis held a string of junior ministerial posts in the Labour government after becoming an MP in 1997 at the age of 31. He started out as a parliamentary private secretary to then Trade Secretary Stephen Byers, before going on to be an education minister, Treasury minister, health minister and international development minister. Most recently, he was minister of state at the Foreign Office. His previous shadow cabinet role was as culture spokesman in which he was a vocal campaigner on phone hacking.
The then 52-year-old was elected unopposed in a ballot for chief whip in 2010. A former local government minister, the Doncaster Central MP is responsible for maintaining discipline among Labour MPs in crucial Commons votes.
Continues to lead her party in the Lords, having done the job, while in government, under Gordon Brown. She is also a spokesman on education, work and pensions, Northern Ireland and equality issues. Born in 1955, she started her political career as a special adviser to Neil - now Lord - Kinnock in the 1980s.
A long-serving leader of Brighton and Hove Council, Lord Bassam was given a peerage in 1997 at the age of 44. The former local government official has continued as Labour's chief whip in the Lords, having done the job since before the 2010 general election.