Boris Johnson: Tories must 'smash down' barriers to social mobility - Telegraph

By 
											Steven Swinford, Deputy Political Editor
10:58AM BST 07 Aug 2015
Britain will no longer "tolerate" the growing gap between the rich and the poor unless the Conservatives "smash down" the barriers to social mobility, Boris Johnson has said.
The Mayor of London said it was wrong that professional jobs were dominated by people from middle class backgrounds, highlighting the recent competition between Eddie Redmayne and Benedict Cumberbatch - both privately educated - for an Oscar.
He said that it had been "decades since we had a culture of bright kids from poor backgrounds who exuberantly burst down the doors of the establishment".
"It is the job of one nation Tories to be the door-bursters of society; we should be smashing down those barriers," he said.
He said that one nation Conservatives would help young children from poor backgrounds to put on a "suit of armour" with the self belief that a good education provided.
Boris Johnson addressing Conservative conference  Photo: PA
He highlighted the fact that chief executives at some FTSE 100 companies earn 700 times more than their average workers.
Mr Johnson said: "If we are going to have wealth gaps on this scale then there must be social mobility and what worries me is that the social mobility in many key respects has been declining.
"You see it in every study, from Alan Milburn’s findings to the work of the Sutton Trust, professional middle class jobs dominated by families who have had professional middle class jobs
"Top universities dominated by families who have been at top universities.
"You see it in the law and in journalism and in Parliament. You see it in acting: there were two British men competing for best actor – an old Etonian and an old Harrovian. You even see it in sport."
He said: "And I stress: a one nation Tory does not want to eat the rich. I don’t want to eat the rich. I understand that it is their initiative and enterprise that creates jobs; I understand that the top one per cent pay 30 per cent of all income tax
"And I think it is an economic advantage, and a sign of London’s pre-eminence, that we have more billionaires than any city on earth – 87 – compared to only 42 in New York and a mere 17 in Paris.
"But I believe one nation Tories need to go further we need to go beyond trickle down and we need to ensure that in a dynamic market economy there is a real cohesion a real sense of shared interest a sense, as David Cameron has so often and so rightly said that we are all in it together."