Budget 2015: George Osborne says 45p top rate of income tax will not be cut - Telegraph

By 
											Peter Dominiczak, Political Editor
10:23AM BST 05 Jul 2015
Comments
The top rate of tax will not be cut to 40p in next week’s Budget, George Osborne has indicated as he disclosed that the Government has now found £12billion of cuts to Britain’s welfare bill.
The Chancellor said his “priorities” were raising the tax free allowance to £12,500 and raising the threshold at which people begin paying the higher rate to £50,000.
There had been speculation that the Chancellor would use his first Budget as part of a Conservative majority Government to reduce the top rate from 45p to 40p – a highly controversial move which would have been labelled as a tax cut for millionaires.

However, Mr Osborne told the Andrew Marr programme on the BBC: “We’ve set out our tax priorities. We made some promises in the election and I want to deliver on the promises. The promises we made on the election were on the thresholds.
“That was our priority. We want to take people on the minimum wage out of income tax – raise that tax free allowance to £12,500.
“For people earning a bit more we want to raise the higher rate to £50,000 – those are our priorities.”
Mr Osborne also said that ministers have “found” the full £12billion of cuts to the benefits budget.

He strongly hinted that the Tories will on Wednesday announce measures to cut tax credits.
Mr Osborne also said the benefits cap – which is going down to £23,000 – will be even lower outside London.
There will also be a major crackdown on "taxpayer-funded subsidies" for "higher earners" living in social housing.
Local authority and housing association tenants in England who earn more than £30,000 - or £40,000 in London - will have to pay up to the market rent for their property, he is due to say.

The move is expected to raise up to £250million a year. He justified the huge cuts by saying that the crisis in Greece shows that Britain must “get its house in order”.
The Chancellor also hinted that he will make major reforms to the planning system in order to build hundreds of thousands of new homes.
There will be concerns from countryside campaigners that this could mean scrapping protections for the green belt.