
By 
											Peter Dominiczak, Political Editor
10:46AM BST 05 Jul 2015
Comments
The BBC has to make “a contribution” to the budget cuts Britain is facing, George Osborne has said as he signalled a £650million raid on the Corporation’s finances.
The Chancellor confirmed that ministers are “in discussions” with the BBC about the Corporation meeting the cost of free television licences for the over-75s.
• BBC to cut 1,000 jobs in management  • Wimbledon 2Day critics still not happy despite changes
He insisted that the broadcaster can find the savings and rejected claims that it could lead to the closure of a major television channel or radio station.
It is believed that the Chancellor wants to force the BBC to take on the cost of 4.5million licences, which cost £145.50 each, from the budget of the Department for Work and Pensions.

Asked about the claims, Mr Osborne told BBC 1’s Andrew Marr programme: “The BBC is a well-run organisation under Tony Hall. I’m absolutely sure that they can make a contribution.”
He said: “The BBC is a really important national institution and a fantastic broadcaster that produces some of the best television and radio in the world and we want to give it a sustainable future in an age where the technology is changing, where there are lots of other broadcasters out there.
“But the BBC is also a publicly-funded, public institution and so it does need to make savings and contribute to what we need to do as a country to get our house in order. So we are in discussions with the BBC.”
• Michael Deacon: Balance and balder-Daesh at the BBC • Telegraph View: The BBC needs to become a reality show
Asked about claims that it will mean a television channel or radio station shutting down, the Chancellor said: “I remember five years ago doing a deal with the BBC…where actually the BBC did make around £500million of savings or took on £500million of responsibilities. I was told at the time by people that they’re going to shut down BBC 2, they’re going to close Radio 4. They always seem to pick the juiciest fruit on the tree.”
Mr Osborne also said that the BBC’s website may be scaled back because it has become too “imperial”.
He said that the scale of the BBC’s online offering means that it is coming “the national newspaper as well as the national broadcaster”.
He said: “You wouldn’t want the BBC to completely crowd out national newspapers. And if you look at the BBC website, it’s a good product but it is becoming a bit more imperial in its ambitions.