
By 
											Tim Ross, Senior Political Correspondent
6:55AM BST 05 Jul 2015
Comments
Almost one in four civil servants is facing the sack under radical plans to cut the size of the state.
George Osborne, the Chancellor, will use this week’s Budget to signal sweeping spending reductions for Whitehall departments as he seeks to balance the nation’s books over the next five years.
As part of the efficiency plan, ministers expect 100,000 civil servant jobs – almost a quarter of the 440,000 total – to be lost between now and 2020. This is on top of the 90,000 jobs that have been cut in the past five years.
Wednesday's post-election Budget - the first purely Conservative financial statement from a chancellor since 1996 - will contain “bold and big” decisions on deep cuts to state spending, including £12 billion savings from the state benefits bill, which the Liberal Democrats blocked in coalition.
Whitehall sources indicated that it would be politically easier for Mr Osborne to make fundamental changes at the start of the new Parliament than closer to the 2020 election, paving the way for sweeping spending cuts over the next two years.
However, the Budget is not expected to be a one-sided story of financial pain. The Tories will seek to make good on David Cameron’s new slogan that he wants Britain to become a “high wage, low tax, low welfare” country, with promises of tax cuts to come.
Mr Osborne will outline his plan to cut taxes by raising the personal income allowance to £12,500 by 2020 and the threshold at which people start to pay the 40p higher rate to £50,000.There is speculation that he could abolish the top rate of 45p entirely.
The Treasury will need to find the funding to meet promises to spend an extra £8 billion a year on the NHS, while making savings from welfare and Whitehall. This will inevitably lead to "big and bold decisions", a senior government source said.
The spending review in the autumn will set out in detail how much money each Whitehall department will lose.
However, the impact on the public sector workforce was likely to be significant, with major cuts likely to civil servants. Those who could face cuts include tax staff working for HM Revenue & Customs and JobCentre staff, employed by the Department for Work and Pensions.
Mr Osborne has promised to eliminate the Budget deficit and run a surplus by 2019. This will require £30 billion of savings over the next two years, including £12 billion from the welfare bill, and £13 billion from government departments.
A Cabinet source said the Chancellor would “face up to” the challenges of Britain’s debts and chart the course the country must take to wipe out the deficit. In the last five years, departments that saw the deepest cuts were also forced to reform the way they worked for the better, ministers believe.
“The departments where we have taken bigger numbers out work better at the end of it," the Cabinet source said. "The Department for Education, for example, saw a staff reduction of 50 per cent in the last parliament and worked far better at the end of it.
“The reason is that everybody knows that if they don’t turn up in the morning, their work does not get done. People feel more committed. Everybody had to reapply for jobs. That meant we lost the right people, rather than the wrong people, and ended up with a stronger department.”
The source said there government planned to expand the number of civil service apprenticeships in order to make the Civil Service less dominated by people from the same background.
Since 2010, over 87,000 civil servant jobs have been lost. The warning that up to 100,000 more will go risks causing a major dispute with trade unions, such as the FDA, which represents Whitehall officials, and the Public and Commercial Services Union.