Burglary must be investigated, says senior police figure - Telegraph

By 
											David Barrett, Home Affairs Correspondent, and Steven Swinford
7:55PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Police must treat burglary as a serious crime and stop investing so much time and resources investing historic child sex abuse cases when the perpetrators are dead, one of Britain's most senior officers has warned.
Sir Hugh Orde, the former head of the Association of Chief Police Officers, says that investigations into historic sexual abuse cases are putting "huge pressure" on police forces at at time when resources are scarce.
Earlier this week Wiltshire Police announced that it is investigating historic allegations of sex abuse against Sir Edward Heath, the former prime minister, and other forces have since followed suit.
A burglary (picture posed by model)  Photo: ALAMY
The investigation has been heavily criticised after it emerged it was based on the claims of a former brothel owner, who has since denied ever mentioning Sir Edward's name to the police.
It also emerged that police in Leicestershire have been refusing to investigate attempted burglaries at odd numbered homes and claimed that it had no impact on crime rates or public satisfaction.
Sir Hugh Orde, the former head of the Association of Chief Police Officers, says in an article for The Telegraph that the public have a "right" to expect burglaries to be investigated
He says: “Burglary is by any definition a serious crime. It is the invasion of one’s home, and normally, the theft of very personal possessions.
“I would add that if we step back from this task, it is inevitable that the essential confidence built up between police and citizen is eroded.”
Officers make an arrest  Photo: Getty Images
He says vital police resources are being consumed investigating historic child sex abuse and other crimes which took place years ago.
"If we then add to the demand equation the huge pressure on forces to investigate the past few decades at the expense of the present, the challenge for the leadership becomes more acute.
“Many of these are investigations into alleged sexual abuse by people who will never be prosecuted because they are dead.
“I would not want to suggest victims of the past should be ignored.
• Failing to investigate burglary won't solve anything, says police commissioner
“But put simply: a criminal investigation will not deliver justice in these very difficult cases.”
He says that the failure to investigate crimes like burglaries will have "far wider implications", including potentially hampering terrorist investigations.
Police on the way to a crime scene  Photo: Alamy
"If one looks for example at the current terrorist threat to this country it is clear that it has shifted from dealing with highly organised organisations, such as the IRA, to highly disorganised individual actors who self-radicalise within our law-abiding and diverse communities with the intent of committing one atrocity, not some strategic objective.
"The information and intelligence we desperately need to combat this will come from the very communities in which they are embedded.
"If we lose their confidence by simply failing to protect them from crimes that are so personal, a vital link in the intelligence chain will be lost."
Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said that burglary should be taken "extremely seriously" and as a "top priority".
He said: "As Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe [the head of the Metropolitan Police] rightly says, this is a crime which should be taken extremely seriously, and we have made it one of our top priorities.
Boris Johnson, mayor of London, and a beat officer in Dalston, east London  Photo: PA
"In 2013 we set a target to reduce the crimes of most concern to Londoners by 20 per cent by 2016, and already burglary has fallen by 24 per cent.
"We have moved over 2,600 additional officers into neighbourhood police teams, and thanks to the hard work and dedication of the Met Police London’s neighbourhoods are now safer than ever before.”