
By 
											Bryony Gordon
2:38PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Comments
It surprised me how shocked I felt about the closure of Kids Company this week. With each increasingly erratic interview given by Camila Batmanghelidjh, and every revelation of extravagant mismanagement, anger bloomed inside me.
Bonoism - a condition described perfectly by the political theorist Alan Finlayson, in which sufferers see “social or economic problems as opportunities to demonstrate [their] importance in the world” - had finally taken down a charity. Batmanghelidjh’s ego had grown so large that Kids Company was squashed under the weight of it.
But cups of tea drank and calming walks taken, all I could think was: why are you shocked? What did you expect from a woman who, as a friend who visited Kids Company told me, “behaved like a Queen ant in a silk chamber being served by her worker ants”? I’ve been in the same room as Batmanghelidjh several times and marvelled at the way the great and the good circled her like bugs around a bright light.
And who could blame her for lapping up the attention, the compliments and the suggestions of martyrdom? Why shouldn’t she have enjoyed some spoils, after all the hard work she had put in to Kids Company? And wasn’t this sort of inevitable, given we live in a world so superficial that politicians and VIPs will attach themselves to a cause without ever bothering to look into what it actually does, swallowing whole stories of life-changing work in order to appear wonderful by association? That picture of Batmanghelidjh surrounded by Gwyneth Paltrow, Stella McCartney and Claudia Schiffer - doesn’t it sum up all that is facile and pathetic about society?
'That picture of Batmanghelidjh surrounded by Gwyneth Paltrow, Stella McCartney and Claudia Schiffer - doesn’t it sum up all that is facile and pathetic about society?'
We like to believe there are altruistic people and there are egotistical people and never the twain shall meet, but actually life is more complicated than that. Batmanghelidjh has shown us there is a much thinner line between the two conditions than we would like there to be, and that one can actually feed the other. In her case, the altruism fed the ego to the point that it starved itself, but we are all of us guilty of this to a certain degree: the man who runs a marathon to raise money for a great cause and the spirits of an even greater cause (himself); the woman who empties all her loose change into the collection tin in the hope it will provide some sort of positive karma (I do this); the billionaire who funds research into diseases to compensate for the private jets he uses and the super yachts he owns. Egotistic altruism is not as unusual as it may seem.
Batmanghelidjh isn’t even the most high profile egotistic altruist. Step forward Bob Geldof, and Bono of the aforementioned Bonoism, who have devoted entire careers to making themselves feel loftier than everyone else through acts of charity. Both figures have questionable tax arrangements, and when Geldof was asked by a journalist about his, his response was entirely telling: “My time? Is that not a tax?” No. No it isn’t. Then there was the pop star who had to be helicoptered in to the recording of the latest Band Aid song last year, in order to fit it into existing work commitments. The tens of thousands of pounds this undoubtedly cost could have been donated directly to the Disasters Emergency Committee, or Medecins Sans Frontieres, but that wouldn’t have provided the star in question with an angelic halo to shine in front of their adoring public.
Camila with designer Anya Hindmarch
Charities, struggling because of the economic downturn, have got wise to this and used it to their advantage. They have appealed to our vanity. Last year we donated millions to Motor Neurone Disease charities because of the Ice Bucket Challenge, a construct created solely to allow us to show off. Ditto the No Make-Up Selfie, which saw millions of women bravely pose without lipstick on in order to raise funds for Cancer Research. Time was we didn’t talk about our charity work. Now it is almost as if it hasn’t happened unless we do.
Combine the rise of egotistic altruism with chuggers (those out of work actors paid loads to accost you and your bank details as you wander down the high street) and reports of aggressive cold-calling driving 92-year-old Olive Cooke to her death, and the third sector starts to look like it is in serious trouble. Add in austerity measures and cuts, and you realise that the closure of Kids Company is only the tip of a very, very large iceberg. We should take its demise and turn it into something positive by changing the way we treat charity - not as something that helps us, but as something that helps others.