By 
											Simon Johnson, Scottish Political Editor
12:01AM BST 03 Sep 2015
Comments
Scotland could benefit from more jobs and business if changes are made to the way the European Union operates, the new Confederation of British Industry (CBI) president will tell business leaders tonight.
Paul Dreschler will say more than 336,000 jobs north of the Border are directly or indirectly reliant on the EU but will concede it is "far from perfect" and businesses are "not blind to the downsides".
Addressing the CBI Scotland annual dinner in Glasgow, alongside Nicola Sturgeon and the entrepreneur Tom Hunter, he will say that the EU needs to focus more on creating jobs by improving trade conditions.
George Osborne told the Telegraph in July that Britain's relationship with the EU should return to the concept of a “single market of free trade” following the renegotiation of the country’s membership and approval for that in the planned referendum.
The event, which hundreds of business leaders will attend, marks the change in relations between the eminent business group and the SNP after a lengthy period of mutual suspicion.
Mr Dreschler will tell the business leader that about 45 per cent of Scottish exports go to the Continent and the EU’s single market gives domestic businesses access to 500 million potential customers.
He will say that most companies want to stay within a reformed EU “as the disadvantages of UK membership are significantly outweighed by the benefits."
But he will argue that the EU "needs to do more of what it's good at and less of what it's bad at", concluding: "We believe that creating jobs should be at the very heart of what Europe is all about.
"Expanding the single market in services and signing trade deals should be top of the EU's 'to do' list – and could mean more sales for firms and more jobs for people here in Scotland."
He will also highlight the need to improve educational attainment and close the gap between the best and worst state schools, warning: “We quite literally can't afford for our children to be left behind in the global skills race."
Ms Sturgeon has announced plans to bring in national testing for primary pupils to measure whether standards are increasing or falling.
The CBI was forced to radically scale back the dinner last year after the electoral watchdog ruled it was a Unionist campaign event in the independence referendum and had to comply with spending limits. David Cameron was the guest of honour.
No SNP MSPs or ministers attended the 2013 dinner when Sir Mike Rake used his first speech as CBI president to warn breaking up the UK would be expensive.