
By 
											Peter Spence, Economics Correspondent
12:01AM BST 05 Jul 2015
Comments
George Osborne should radically cut back the complexity of the British tax system when he delivers his emergency budget this week, the Institute of Directors has urged.
By taking steps to drastically simplify tax, the Government could encourage investment and support the economy, while giving more ordinary people a stake in the private sector, the business group said.
Simon Walker, the institute’s director-general, said: “The Chancellor has the opportunity to deliver an investment-boosting Budget, making it easier for businesses to raise capital, and promoting investment in the private sector.”
“The painfully complex system of unreliable allowances and competing or overlapping schemes makes it harder for businesses to take long-term investment decisions,” he said.
The Budget is the first the Chancellor will deliver with a majority Conservative Government, offering him more flexibility to take radical steps when he addresses Parliament on Wednesday.
The institute also put pressure on Mr Osborne to create an “equity economy”, simplifying taxes on wealth and introducing investment tax breaks so that more Britons might buy shares and have a stake in the growth of publicly traded companies.
Mr Walker said the Chancellor should move towards “making sure the tax system promotes investment and is easy for both individuals and businesses to understand”.
He recommended the Treasury consult on merging capital taxes, raising investment allowances and creating new tax relief for business investment.
• Seven charts you need to see before the 'Emergency Budget' • What to expect at the 'Emergency Budget'
The business group called on the Government to raise the annual investment allowance, increasing tax relief from £500,000 to £600,000.
Stephen Herring, head of taxation at the IoD’s, said: “As the economy continues to recover, both business and individual taxpayers will rightly expect more wide ranging tax reforms and simplification than the previous Government was able or willing to undertake.”
“Businesses, especially SMEs, are concerned about high taxes on employment, commercial property occupation and transactions as well as being convinced that government ought to try much harder to deliver authentic, far reaching tax simplification,” he said.
The Chancellor is due to also give an update on his plans to tackle spending. He is expected to provide extra detail on a new law, delivering on a promise to always deliver budget surpluses in “normal times”.

Source: HSBC, OBR
If the Treasury defines “normal times” in a way that will require even deeper spending cuts than planned, the new rules could threaten economic growth, the EY Item Club has warned.
Martin Beck, senior economic advisor to the EY Item Club, said: “The Chancellor’s new fiscal rule could entail an even tighter fiscal squeeze and even greater departmental cuts may be on the cards if he seeks to achieve his surplus target within the next two years.”
If the Chancellor defines “normal times” as when spare capacity in the economy is eliminated, then he may look to enforce the rule from 2017/18, when official forecasts published in March predicted this would occur.
“With the Bank of England in a limited position to respond with looser monetary policy, the result could be weaker growth,” Mr Beck said. The Bank’s interest rates have remained “flat on the floor” at 0.5pc for more than six years, he added, leaving only further QE as a viable option to counteract harsher austerity.