
By 
											John Bingham, Social Affairs Editor
7:30AM BST 04 Jul 2015
David Cameron overruled officials to order a £4.3 million grant to Kids Company, the charity run by the charismatic campaigner Camila Batmanghelidjh, despite concerns about its management of taxpayers money, it has been claimed.
One former senior figure in the Coalition government said Mr Cameron had been “in awe” of Ms Batmanghelidjh, who became a poster-girl for his “Big Society” idea.
Downing Street is said to have ordered the Department for Education to approve the payout, despite concerns, after receiving a “Dear David” letter from Ms Batmanghelidjh, it was claimed.
The disclosure emerged as Ms Batmanghelidjh was forced to stand aside as chief executive of the respected charity, which works with troubled and deprived young people in south London, Bristol and Liverpool, in return for any further funding.
Kids Company also announced job cuts amid what it called “unprecedented financial strain”.
It came after the Cabinet Office, which is now responsible for funding youth projects, refused to make a further £3 million cash lifeline to the high-profile charity unless Ms Batmanghelidjh stepped aside from day-to-day control.
A Government-sponsored audit of the charity recently raised serious concerns about its cashflow management.

But Ms Batmanghelidjh said she had been a victim of “ugly games” by politicians and said was being “silenced” for speaking out against cuts and child poverty.
Her comments came amid question marks over procedures at the charity which received a series of multi-million pound government grants.
Former employees have spoken of a “chaotic” and highly-charged atmosphere where staff at times felt “unsafe” because of fights.
There were also concerns about seemingly unorthodox methods of dealing with troubled young people including handing out money in envelopes without checks on what it was being spent on.
One former employee described Ms Batmanghelidjh as like a “South London Sepp Blatter” – meaning that she was seen as untouchable.
Another said: “If I had to sum up my time there in one word it would be ‘chaotic’.
“There seemed to be a lot more adults in here than there were kids, which I always thought was funny for something called Kids’ Company.
“There were occasions where I, and I know others, felt unsafe.”

But there were claims that previous attempts to cut funding amid concerns about practices at the charity had been overruled by Downing Street.
Dominic Cummings, a former adviser to Michael Gove at the Department for Education, said a decision not to renew the charity's grant had been revrese on Mr Cameron’s orders.
Another senior figure in the department at the time said Ms Batmanghelidjh had sidestepped ministers going “straight to the top” to secure the money.
“It was never clear to us what she actually spent the money on rather than employing an awful lot of people,” he said.
“But what did they do? How many kids did they actually take off the streets and improve their lives?
“Camila Batmanghelidjh never had that sort of analysis because Number 10 said give them the money.”
At one point one of the charity’s supporters is said to have met Tim Loughton, the then children’s minister, lobbying for the new grant effectively threatening critical headlines if the cash was not agreed.
“Before we could do anything we saw a copy of the ‘Dear David’ letter which she had already sent to Number 10,” the source added.
“Literally it was a ‘Dear David’ letter sent before she had had actually approached us about the grant.
“She had already been to the top and because David was rather in awe of her then the missive came from Number 10 saying pay it.”
He added: “David Cameron was always deeply involved with Kids Company before and was always in awe of Camila Batmanghelidjh so I very much doubt that anything could have happened this time without him being party to it.”
Ms Batmanghelidjh said: “The type of briefing they are now delivering is one in which they are attempting to discredit me, so my message is weakened."
“I pray to God it is not coming from David Cameron and his team, I still have to have faith he wants to do the right thing by children.”
Mr Cameron's official spokeswoman said: "The Government's priority is to do all it can to make sure every child has the best start in life.
"As part of that the Cabinet Office has been working to continue to support Kids Company during the difficult situation that they face.
"As part of ensuring that that work is put on a sustainable footing they have requested changes to their management structure, which is in the best interests of the charity.
"I think that reflects the fact that we recognise the important work that they do and the Government's commitment to helping to support children."
In a statement the charity said: "In recognition of the value of Kids Company’s work, successive governments have worked with the charity to support more children and young people.
"The last government granted the charity £4.25m to contribute to Kids Company’s 2015/16 budget. Kids Company has been audited annually and its outputs evaluated quarterly by government appointed auditors."