By 
											Ben Riley-Smith, Political Correspondent
10:00PM BST 02 Sep 2015
David Cameron faces defeat in the Commons over the EU Referendum Bill despite a last-minute U-turn that saw him reintroduce a ban on public spending during the campaign.
Ministers backed down after pressure from Tory backbenchers and agreed to keep in place ‘purdah’, which blocks public money being used to back one side in the referendum.
However, Labour and Eurosceptic Conservative MPs indicated they will vote down attempts to narrow the definition of what ministers can and cannot say during the campaign.
The warnings mean that despite a major reversal by Mr Cameron on the issue he could still suffer his first defeat in Parliament since the election on Monday.
David Cameron is to bring forward new laws to rein in lobbyists following the cash-for-questions scandal exposed by The Telegraph.   Photo: EDDIE MULLHOLLAND FOR THE TELEGRAPH
It comes after a chaotic day of backroom negotiations as the government attempted to win back Tory Eurosceptics who were to rebel over purdah.
David Lidington, the Europe minister, and his aides spent the day negotiating with the Labour leadership and senior Tory backbenchers as they redrafted the government’s position.
Changes to the EU Referendum Bill were eventually tabled by the government at 4.15pm – just 15 minutes before the deadline – despite promising three months ago to listen to backbench concerns.
Ministers have now agreed that there should be a ‘purdah’ period during the referendum campaign which blocks taxpayers’ money being spent keeping Britain in Europe.
It marks a reversal from the government’s stance before the summer break when Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, said the rules were "unworkable and inappropriate".
The government has also adopted Labour’s suggestion that they can return to Parliament to ask for exemptions to the rules at a later date if problems arise.
“We are absolutely determined to make sure that the referendum is seen by both sides as fair,” Mr Lidington said, adding the changes “deliver on the commitment” to listen to backbenchers.
However a new row is emerging over the government’s attempt to narrow what ministers can and cannot say during the EU referendum campaign.
Current rules bar the government printing material that “deals with any of the issues raised” by the referendum, but ministers want to change that to only issues that “directly address” the vote.
A Labour source claimed the subtle change would allow the Prime Minister to make interventions on immigration, climate change and fisheries without breaking the law.
With Tory Eurosceptics also voicing concern it means that the government could be defeated on the proposed change when it is voted on by MPs on Monday.
“The exceptionally late tabling of these amendments has created a wholly unnecessary period of high political drama,” said Steve Baker, a Tory MP who chairs the Eurosceptic group Conservatives for Britain.
“We would have like to see these amendments hours, days, or weeks ago but their tabling at 16.15 -just 15 minutes before the deadline – left us with little option but to work in the dark.”
Mr Baker said he had “concerns” about the late changes and would consider “very closely” whether to block the amendment narrowing the definition of purdah.
UK government contributions to the EU budget  Photo: HM TREASURY
Bernard Jenkins, the Tory chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee, said: “The government has travelled some distance by accepting the principle that there should be purdah but it is not clear what they still wish to the have the power to exempt.”
“What we cannot have is the government changing the rules on purdah half way through the referendum campaign.”
A Labour source said of the changes to the definition of purdah: “We could well end up voting against this but will need to study the details further.”