http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/47d5f680/sc/40/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0Cconservative0C117180A970CDavid0ECameron0Eplans0Epermanent0Ememorial0Eto0ETunisia0Eterror0Evictims0Bhtml/story01.htm
David Cameron plans permanent memorial to Tunisia terror victims  - Telegraph

By 
											Tim Ross, Senior Political Correspondent
12:01AM BST 05 Jul 2015
A permanent memorial will be built in the UK dedicated to the 30 British victims of last week’s terrorist attack in Tunisia, David Cameron has announced.
A special service of remembrance will also be held for those caught up in the atrocity in the autumn, the Prime Minister said.
Plans are also under way to create a separate national memorial for all Britons killed in terrorist attacks overseas.
The Prime Minister announced the proposals on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the July 7 London bombings of 2005, which will be marked on Tuesday by a ceremony and a national service of remembrance.
“Those who lost their lives in Tunisia last week were innocent victims of a brutal terrorist atrocity,” Mr Cameron said.
“It is right that we mark and commemorate them and others murdered by terrorists overseas appropriately and support the loved ones they have left behind in every way we can.”
The memorials will be funded by banking fines, which are allocated by George Osborne, the Chancellor, who has decided that penalties imposed on bankers for their misdemeanours should be used for good causes.
On Tuesday, the country will remember the 52 victims, and hundreds of survivors, of the 7/7 London bombings, with a wreath-laying ceremony at the 7/7 memorial in Hyde Park. A national service of remembrance will also be held at St Paul’s Cathedral.
Tobias Ellwood, the Foreign Office minister whose brother Jonathan was killed in the Bali bombing of 2002, promised to discuss plans for the Tunisia memorial and remembrance service with families of victims and survivors of the attack.
“This memorial will be for the families, so we want to talk to them about our plans to determine what they feel is most appropriate,” Mr Ellwood said. “It could well be that it is located in the North, since very sadly most of the victims were from that part of the country.
“Having been through a similar situation, I know how important it is that these families, who have been united by a single tragedy, have that marked in one place. They will end up providing mutual support to each other, and to have this memorial to their loved ones will be very important. It is also right that the nation recognises the scale of this appalling event.”
Mr Ellwood, who has led a long campaign for a single memorial to all victims of terrorism overseas, said he was delighted this would also go ahead.
After the 2002 terrorist attack on the Sari Club, which killed 28 Britons, he flew to Bali and to identify his brother and bring his body back to the UK.
“Sadly, we live in very difficult and dangerous times. We have to recognise that there are many victims of terrorism who do not have a grave, whose families don't have a place where they can lay flowers and grieve in the normal way,” Mr Ellwood said.
“It is therefore appropriate that we have a national memorial for those caught up in terrorism abroad. These people must never be forgotten.”