Don't drive Christian politicians into the closet - Telegraph

By 
											Tim Stanley
9:40AM BST 03 Jul 2015
Comments
Christians like to think of themselves as martyrs. It’s in the religion’s DNA. So in the wake of gay marriage victories across the Western world there has been a widespread panic that the End is Nigh. Christians fear they will be forced not only to celebrate gay weddings but also bake cakes for them. And those that refuse will go to prison, where they will probably have to witness more gay stuff than they ever dared imagine.
I think it’s foolish to start writing the jeremiads just yet. But there are signs that as the culture shifts away from religiously defined morality and towards a socially liberal consensus, Christians might well suffer discrimination. They could even retreat into the closet. For proof, consider the Lib Dem leadership race.
Tim Farron is the frontrunner against Norman Lamb – and Farron will almost certainly win. But it’s not been as easy as expected. Farron is an evangelical Christian. He has in the past said that abortion is wrong and he abstained on the gay marriage vote – and he has been labelled an illiberal religious bigot for his sins. Norman Lamb has even been forced to apologise for the actions of supporters who allegedly telephoned party members to ask pointed questions about what they thought of Farron’s views on abortion and gay rights.
The extraordinary thing is that Farron has actually changed his mind on both issues. He’s not being punished for what he advocates now but for what he has advocated in the past. These are thought crimes committed long after the statute of limitations expired. So we can reasonably infer that what troubles Farron’s critics isn’t that he wants to inject Christianity into government but the very fact that he is a Christian at all.
Writing for The Guardian, Catherine Bennett launched an extraordinary witch hunt on this moderate-minded, fundamentally decent man. She wrote that it wasn’t unreasonable to ask, “Is it compatible for anybody to lead a Liberal party and be a Christian?” And she concluded that any MP who does believe in the All Mighty ought to be compelled to declare it as an interest – as if it was akin to receiving money from a tobacco company. “It seems only fair to ask that, when ethics are debated, they disclose which supernatural affiliation has dictated their [votes], along with any penalties for disobedience.” Perhaps they might also wear a target on their chest? That way metropolitan liberals can know where to aim their rotten fruit.
The Lib Dems are not alone in their awkward relationship with Christianity. Labour’s Andy Burnham has made much of his working-class roots and has used the label “Catholic” to signal his authenticity. Yet when discussing the articles of his faith he is keen to let gay voters know that “It’s always been the case that as an MP I’ve felt at odds with the church.” Meanwhile, Nicky Morgan, a Christian who voted against gay marriage, has listed “homophobia” among the early signs of religious radicalisation that teachers must look out for in schools. Traditionalist Christians have dubbed it the thin end of the wedge.
They should retain perspective. The handful of problems Christians face in the UK is nothing compared to those faced by their coreligionists in the Middle East or Asia. Nor do they compare with the decades of legal persecution faced by gays and lesbians in Britain. Abnormally high suicide rates indicate that gay lives are still far harder than that of the average Methodist.
Nevertheless, the growing sense that being a Christian might be detrimental to a political career is worrying. It could deter talent from running for office. Others may choose to self-censor and keep quiet about something that defines their very being. All of which would be a surrender to an intellectually shallow, one-dimensional view of theology being pushed by social liberals. Some Christians have reconciled themselves to gay rights or are one their way to doing so – as Farron’s own conversion on the subject indicates. For those who retain an orthodox position, it must be infuriating not only to see their personal careers threatened but also the contribution that Christianity has to offer on so many other issues eclipsed by the liberal obsession with sexual liberty.
Pope Francis conducts Mass at the Vatican (Photo: REUTERS)
Historically, religion has been a motor to progress. In the 19th century, evangelicals led the campaigns against child labour and child prostitution. Christian fervor drove the early Labour movement. Margaret Thatcher applied her Methodist reading of free will to economics when she privatised and deregulated. Tony Benn applied his Christian socialism when he opposed her.
And religious zeal permeates the Lib Dems, who are the inheritors of the non-conformist Liberal tradition. Shirley Williams (Catholic) voted against gay marriage; Simon Hughes (evangelical) abstained on the matter. Religious Lib Dems would probably say that their commitment to social democracy isn’t in spite of their faith but a product of it. Zealous secularists need to understand that Christian teachings on sex are only one part of a radical gospel that calls believers to lead lives of heroic self-sacrifice. I see a lot of that in evidence in the work of Charles Kennedy, who was a devout Catholic. He was also pro-life and, incidentally, the most popular leader the Lib Dems ever had.
We are entering a post-Christian society in which religion no longer enjoys the automatic authority that it once had. One consequence is that forced to choose between religious rectitude and gay rights, the state increasingly favours the latter. That’s perhaps inevitable and, arguably, a reckoning with historic discrimination. But as the culture changes, it would be unfortunate if one kind of prejudice was replaced with another. And it would be tragic if an artificial separation was created between politics and faith that deprives us of high-quality Christian public servants. Let us not drive Christians into the closet in the way that we once so cruelly did to gays and lesbians.