English votes: What's going on? - BBC News

The government says it will give a "veto" to English MPs on laws that don't affect Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Where has this issue come from?
'Real fairness'
The government has unveiled its solution to calls for "English votes for English laws". The answer, ministers say, to give MPs from English constituencies a new "veto" over laws that only affect England.
In some cases it will be MPs from England and Wales who will get a say on laws not affecting Scotland or Northern Ireland.
Under the government's proposals, an England-only committee stage will consider bills deemed "England-only in their entirety", while agreement of a "Legislative Grand Committee" will be required for individual parts of legislation that relate only to England or England and Wales.
All MPs will vote on the other stages of the bill's journey through Parliament.
Commons Leader Chris Grayling said the change, also applying in some cases to Welsh MPs, would bring "real fairness to our constitutional arrangements".
The announcement follows Scotland's No vote to independence, and the new powers being transferred to the Scottish government as a result.
This has led people in other parts of the UK to question whether they too should have more control over their own affairs.
But don't we already have MPs to speak and vote for us?
Yes, but there's growing disquiet about the way the current set-up works, among both the public and MPs themselves.
Despite the devolution of powers to Scotland in the late 1990s, Scottish MPs at Westminster can still vote on issues affecting England only, such as its health and education policies. English MPs have no such power over Scotland.
This constitutional anomaly - known as the "West Lothian Question" - vexes many voters and MPs, particularly those on the Conservative benches.
The SNP currently holds 56 of Scotland's 59 seats.
How many England-only laws are there?
It's hard to say. This is because the effects of a law can extend to other areas even if it does not directly apply there.
The McKay Commission, which carried out a review of the West Lothian Question for the government, said there were many ways laws applying only in England, or England and Wales, could still have "consequential effects" in the devolved nations.
For example, there is a tradition of "parity" between a devolved administration and Westminster in some policy areas, for example social security policy in Northern Ireland.
There are also funding implications for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland when a spending commitment is made for England only, for example on the NHS. Under the current Barnett formula grant system, the devolved administrations' funding is adjusted to take into account changes to public spending in England.
This is often controversial, for example when spending on the London Olympics was deemed to be UK-wide, rather than England-only - triggering a row between Westminster and the devolved administrations.
For these reasons, according to House of Commons Library research, it is "not a simple matter" to count England-only bills. However, it adds that "whatever method is used, there are relatively few bills that unambiguously affect England only".
That's not the end of the matter though. There could be sections of a bill that apply only in England, even when the legislation itself extends across the United Kingdom.
The government says it will be for the Speaker to decide whether a bill, or sections of a bill, apply only to England, or only to England and Wales.
Why is this all coming to a head now?
The three main Westminster parties agreed to give "extensive new powers" to the Scottish Parliament on issues such as tax and welfare if the country's voters rejected independence in the referendum.
Just minutes after the No vote was announced in September, David Cameron vowed to fulfil the pledge of new powers for Scotland but also said talks on a new settlement for England should take place "in tandem".
A commission set up to examine Scottish devolution recommended handing more control over income tax to the Scottish Parliament.
It also suggested devolving other taxes, including air passenger duty.
The government says these recommendations are being put into practice by the Scotland Bill, currently working its way through Parliament. Although the SNP believes it should be strengthened, Holyrood is certain to get new powers which has intensified calls for a solution to what is being called the 'English Question'.
While some Conservative MPs wanted a full English parliament, which would rule on laws only affecting England, the government said its solution was "answering the West Lothian Question".
What are the other parties saying?
Labour is calling for a "constitutional convention" to consider the issue, and has accused the Conservatives of "rushing" a decision that will enact "profound constitutional change".
Shadow Commons leader Angela Eagle said the Tories' chosen solution contained "plenty of opportunities for procedural chaos".
The opposition has previously called for devolution within England to regions and for the House of Lords to be replaced with a "Senate of the Nations and the Regions".
SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon said the proposals were a "constitutional shambles" aimed at cutting her party of the decision-making process.
She believed the changes would increase support for Scottish independence.
Will there be more powers for England's regions?
The 'Northern Powerhouse' has become one of the new Conservative government's most-used slogans. It refers to the transfer of power and funding to northern cities from Westminster to northern cities and city regions, with Greater Manchester at the forefront.
In exchange, the government wants to see more directly-elected mayors in charge of these areas. But creating extra tiers of government has not proved popular with the English public. When 10 cities held a referendum on whether they wanted elected mayors in 2012, only one - Bristol - voted in favour. Similarly, voters in north-east England rejected setting up a regional assembly by 78% to 22% in 2004.
And what about Northern Ireland and Wales?
In Northern Ireland, the DUP says a vote on the future constitutional arrangement is not needed, with First Minister Peter Robinson saying "more and more" people want to maintain the status quo.
But Sinn Fein says Stormont should get more powers over taxation and government spending.
In Wales, Labour First Minister Carwyn Jones demanded a full say in any devolution talks, while Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood says Wales must get new powers if Scotland does, rather than being treated as "second-rate".