
By 
											Ben Riley-Smith, Political Correspondent
8:44AM BST 03 Jul 2015
British holidaymakers in Greece will be unable to buy food or medicine within days if a deal is not reached to reopen the banks, the head of a leading business body has warned.
Constantine Michalos, president of Athens Chamber of Commerce, said there could be “shortages on the shelves” by early next week and tourists could be left without “basics”.
Mr Michalos warned that shops will begin to close on Friday and not reopen because they are unable to import products due to the bank closures.
• Greece needs another €50bn and massive debt relief, admits IMF
He added that even if a deal is found after Sunday’s referendum and the banks reopen, Greeks will begin a run on the banks by removing their life savings because trust is so low.
The stark warnings come just days before the Greeks go to the polls for a Yes/No vote on whether the country should accept a rescue package from to help keep it in the euro.
Alexis Tsipras, the Greek Prime Minister and leader of Syriza, has urged voters to reject the package so eurozone leader offer the country more help for less extreme austerity demands.
The Foreign Office increased warnings to British tourists heading to the country for their summer holidays this week as banks remains close and limits were placed on ATM withdrawal.
Yanis Varoufakis, Greece's finance minister, said he would resign is the Greek people voted "yes" on Sunday
Speaking to BBC Radio Four’s Today programme, Mr Michalos warned holidaymakers would be left without access to essential food and medicines unless the situation is resolved soon.
He said the bank closures had limited the ability of shops to import new stocks because Greece is currently frozen out of a cross-Europe system of money transactions.
“We will see as of next week shortages on the shelves”, Mr Michalos. “We are not in the position, although we may have funds in our accounts, to actually import goods and the major worry here is with basic sectors of the economy such as food and pharmaceuticals.
“We need to find a way in order to import them, first of all to feed the people and, secondly, this is the high season as far as tourism is concerned in Greece.
“We have tourist visitors in this country which we cannot afford to leave them without at least the basics and the necessities.”
Mr Michalos warned the bank closures were “absolutely disastrous” for shops in the country and dismissed suggestions they could reopen soon given the lack of funds.
