http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48cf0c1c/sc/31/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0Clabour0C117914340CJeremy0ECorbyn0ELabour0Ecould0Ereopen0Ecoal0Emines0Eand0Enationalise0Egas0Eand0Eelectricity0Esector0Bhtml/story01.htm
Jeremy Corbyn: Labour could reopen coal mines and nationalise gas and electricity sector - Telegraph

By Steven Swinford, Tom Whitehead
12:35AM BST 08 Aug 2015
Britain should consider reopening coal mines and nationalising energy companies, Jeremy Corbyn has suggested. Mr Corbyn, the hard-Left candidate for the Labour leadership, has said that his admiration of Karl Marx has inspired his bid to become the Labour leader.
However, City analysts said that his plans to renationalise the gas and electricity sector would cost the Government as much as £185 billion.

Peter Atherton, an analyst at Jefferies investment bank, said: “Mr Corbyn suggests that the Government could take a majority equity stake in the utility companies. However, under stock exchange rules, once a stock holding hits 30pc an offer for the whole company must be made. Therefore, we assume that all of the equity would be acquired.”
An analysis by the Labour Party has suggested other policies such as reversing welfare cuts, opposing further public spending decreases and axing tuition fees will cost £55 billion a year.
Under Jeremy Corbyn Labour could reopen coal mines and nationalise gas and electricity sector  Photo: Rex
Mr Corbyn suggested that he wanted to “keep fossil fuels in the ground” as he unveiled his energy policy. However, he kept open the possibility of reopening coal mines in South Wales with “clean burn technology”.

{
            "type": "countdown",
            "options": {
                'startDate': '2012/05/08 00:00:00Z',
                'endDate': '2015/09/11 23:00:00Z',
                'progressBar': true,
                'reverse': false
            }
        }
    

 Days until new Labour leader announced
He said: “The last deep coal mines in South Wales have gone but it’s quite possible that in future years coal prices will start to go up again around the world. And maybe there will be a case for what is actually very high quality coal, particularly in South Wales, being mined again.
“But if there’s to be substantial coal fire generation it’s got to be clean burn technology, it’s got to have carbon filters on it, it’s got to be carbon neutral. I’ve looked at it, I’ve discussed it. It’s complicated. At one level it looks very expensive. But the advantages also look quite attractive.”
Mr Corbyn claimed rich people are happy to pay more tax to fund better public services and pay off Britain’s debts. Writing in The Independent newspaper, Mr Corbyn said: “Many well-off people I speak to, in Islington and around the country, would be quite happy to pay more tax to fund better public services or to pay down our debts. Opinion polls bear this out: better off people are no less likely to support higher taxes.”
He also attempted to dispel “myths” that he is anti-business by saying it will “come as news to my lovely local coffee shop”. Eglal Goma, the owner of the Girasola coffee shop in Islington, north London, said Mr Corbyn was “very supportive and kept saying we need more cafes like this one”.
