By 
											Ben Riley-Smith, Political Correspondent
10:00PM BST 02 Sep 2015
Jeremy Corbyn's closest advisers want him to put scrapping Trident and leaving Nato on the "back-burner" in a bid to avoid a fatal split in the Labour Party if he wins.
Senior figures in the front-runner's team have urged him to prioritise issues that can “unify” the party like blocking welfare cuts, protecting workers' rights and fighting austerity.
His inner circle has begun to map out his first 100 days in office in anticipation of victory on September 12 to ensure they are not caught unprepared.
Jeremy Corbyn cuts a smarter appearance at a recent hustings
Aides have sought advice about how to structure his private office if he becomes Labour leader and hope to have a 25-man team in place before Laobur's annual conference in late September.
It comes after senior Labour figures softened their position towards Mr Cobryn but made clear the policies of his they most oppose
Andy Burnham, Mr Corbyn’s leadership rival, said he would resign from any shadow cabinet that proposed scrapping Trident while Chuka Umunna, the shadow business secretary, criticised his position on Nato and the European Union.
With less than a fortnight to go before the result, Mr Corbyn still leads the race to become Ed Miliband’s successor according to aides for all four candidates for the post.
There are calls for him to sideline some of his most divisive policies such as scrapping Trident and leaving Nato in order to win over sceptical centrist Labour MPs.
"It is bloody obvious. If he wants to avoid being smashed by the Parliamentary Labour Party, the government and the press he needs to avoid those issues,” one source close to Mr Corbyn said.
“He should prioritise things that will unify the party – blocking welfare reforms, austerity cuts, protecting workers rights."
The source added that the “number one priority” during his first 100 days as leader would be to win over internal critics.
Another source said: “I would expect him to put Nato on the back-burner because actually it doesn't make much difference either way [in the first 100 days]."
They added: “He should prioritise those policies that have broader appeal like some of the stuff around welfare, benefits and bringing the railways and the Post Office back into public ownership."
Mr Corbyn is being urged to put “unity” at the heart of his address to the Trade Union conference if he wins – the new Labour leader’s first public speech after results day on September 12.
Talk of an immediate coup from Labour MPs should Mr Corbyn win has been played down in recent weeks amid acceptance that undermining a democratically elected leader could backfire.
Labour leadership candidates Yvette Cooper, Jeremy Corbyn, Liz Kendall and Andy Burnham  Photo: Stephen Lock
Mr Umunna, who backed Liz Kendall in the leadership race, did not rule out serving in Mr Corbyn’s cabinet if he wins during an interview on Wednesday.
“It would completely depend on the programme you’re being asked to sign up to,” he told BBC Radio Four’s Today Programme.
Mr Burnham, when asked whether he would quit Mr Cobryn’s shadow cabinet if told to vote against Trident renewal, said: “The answer is yes. I couldn't support that position. It is the wrong position for Britain to take, so I wouldn't be able to go out publicly to defend it."