http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48c91b8e/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0Clabour0C1178910A70CJeremy0ECorbyn0Erich0Epeople0Eare0Ehappy0Eto0Epay0Emore0Etax0Bhtml/story01.htm
Jeremy Corbyn: rich people are happy to pay more tax - Telegraph

By 
											Emily Gosden
8:39AM BST 07 Aug 2015
Comments
Rich people are happy to pay more tax, Jeremy Corbyn, the left-wing frontrunner for the Labour leadership has claimed.
Addressing the "misconception" that he is anti-business or hates the rich, Mr Corbyn - who has called for higher taxes on top-earners - said: "Many well-off people I speak to, in Islington and around the country, would be quite happy to pay more tax to fund better public services or to pay down our debts."
Writing in the Independent, Mr Corbyn said: "Opinion polls bear this out: better off people are no less likely to support higher taxes."
Jeremy Corbyn at the annual commemoration of the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima  Photo: Corbis
Mr Corbyn said he was "absolutely not relaxed about a few people being filthy rich while others are destitute" - in a reference to Peter Mandelson's infamous comment that New Labour was "intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich as long as they pay their taxes".
BREAKING Jeremy Corbyn does NOT want to increase the top rate of income tax to 70 per cent; 50 per cent is just fine (thanks @theJeremyVine)— Christopher Hope (@christopherhope) 
  July 24, 2015
BREAKING Jeremy Corbyn does NOT want to increase the top rate of income tax to 70 per cent; 50 per cent is just fine (thanks @theJeremyVine)
His comments came as fresh concerns emerged about hard-left supporters of rival parties signing up to vote for Mr Corbyn in the leadership ballot.

Dozens of senior members of hard-left groups opposed to Labour have registered to vote in the contest, undetected by the party's vetting process, The Times reported.
These include 11 people who stood for the Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition in the last election.
Their names were leaked to the newspaper by a party insider worried about the validity of the ballot, and have now been passed on to the party.
Labour has so far insisted the contest will proceed as planned and that it has succeeded in weeding out people who are not true Labour supporters.
More than 100 Green party candidates - and one Conservative MP, Tim Loughton - have so far been identified by Labour as having registered to vote despite not being true supporters, and have since been denied the vote.

{
            "type": "countdown",
            "options": {
                'startDate': '2012/05/08 00:00:00Z',
                'endDate': '2015/09/11 23:00:00Z',
                'progressBar': true,
                'reverse': false
            }
        }
    

 Days until new Labour leader announced
Mr Corbyn used his Independent article to pledge to lead a Labour shadow cabinet with a broad spectrum of opinion from across the party.
"Whoever wins, we shouldn't want a shadow cabinet filled with people who all come from exactly the same political background," he said.
Responding to Mr Corbyn's comments on tax, Alex Wild, research director at the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "There is quite literally nothing to stop somebody popping down to the Treasury today and dropping off a cheque if they'd like to contribute more than they already do.
"The experience of Francois Hollande's France and the rush of high-wealth French residents to London when he ordered them to pay higher taxes, however, suggests that there may not be the appetite Mr Corbyn thinks there is."
