
By 
											Rosa Prince, Assistant Political Editor
7:00AM BST 04 Jul 2015
The last time Jeremy Corbyn stood for elected office in the Labour Party he received just 37 votes.
Running for the shadow cabinet on the eve of New Labour’s 1997 landslide, the ultra left-wing MP, friend of Sinn Fein, defender of the underprivileged, ardent anti-monarchist, must have been aware he was swimming against the Blairite tide. But then Mr Corbyn has never been afraid of championing unpopular causes.
In the nearly 20 years since then, his party has been through a myriad of contortions, from the heady victories of Blair to the depths of despair over Iraq, bitter infighting and the electoral unpopularity of Ed Miliband and Gordon Brown. Through it all, Jeremy Corbyn has steadfastly remained the same.
In the meantime, many of those causes which appeared so outrageous when he first raised them - such as the minimum wage or the release of the Guildford Four and Nelson Mandela - have now become accepted orthodoxy.

Jeremy Corbyn at the launch of a Don't Attack Iraq protest in 2003
As he enters the bear pit that is an Labour electoral contest once again, Mr Corbyn knows his chances are not particularly rosy. He got on to the ballot only after some MPs who confessed they had no intention of voting for him “leant” their nominations in order to see what they described as a “broad debate” on the party’s future.
And yet neither do his prospects they appear as dire as in 1997. For in hustings after hustings, the bearded MP for Islington North is finding himself cheered by Labour and trade union members angry and bitter at the party which managed to throw away an election it arguably should have won, and ready to take out that rage on the establishment candidates, Liz Kendall, Andy Burnham and Yvette Cooper.

Labour leadership contenders: Yvette Cooper, Jeremy Corbyn, Liz Kendall, Andy Burnham
For the first time, the Labour leadership contest is being decided on a simple system of one-member-one-vote. And such are the uncertainties surrounding the mood of the membership that some serious commentators are speculating that Mr Corbyn may well be in with a shout.
It is an prospect which has the Conservatives licking their lips with glee.
So who is Jeremy Corbyn, and what makes him tick?
It is one of the MP’s lodestars that he does not believe in personality politics, once saying: “I wish we had the French system, where public figures have genuinely private lives and there is no Daily Mail.”

He shuns personal interviews and little is known about his background and private life; he has come briefly to wider public attention only twice: in 1999, when he admitted he and his wife had separated after she sent their son to grammar school against his wishes, and in 2002 when he wore a bright red blazer in the Commons Chamber during the eulogies to the Queen Mother.
Jeremy Bernard Corbyn was born in Chippenham, Wilts, on May 26 1949. His father was an electrical engineer and his mother taught maths at a girls’ grammar school. Ironically, given he would go on to leave his wife over her reluctance to send their son to the local comprehensive, Mr Corbyn himself also received a grammar school education, at the prestigious Adams Grammar School in Shropshire, usually in the top 20 state schools in the country for exam results, and unusual for accepting boarders
The young Jeremy was not a boarder, instead enjoying the convivial atmosphere at home where he and his younger brother Piers were encouraged to debate and discuss current affairs with the adults.
While the family was not particularly political, his father did take a keen interest in current affairs.
His mother was more bookish, inspiring in young Jeremy a love of history and literature and igniting his political consciousness by giving him a collection of essays by George Orwell for his 16th birthday.
Piers would go on to become a somewhat controversial weather forecaster and outspoken climate change denier.
#Jeremy #Corbyn standsFor #Labour Leader. It can help #Climate DEBATE! #Piers Comments http://t.co/zUmOeShYAS #CO2 RT pic.twitter.com/WXSDQ6isTj— Piers Corbyn (@Piers_Corbyn) 
  June 16, 2015
#Jeremy #Corbyn standsFor #Labour Leader. It can help #Climate DEBATE! #Piers Comments http://t.co/zUmOeShYAS #CO2 RT pic.twitter.com/WXSDQ6isTj
Both brothers joined the Labour Party at a young age, and Jeremy stepped up his activism while studying at North London Polytechnic, attending demonstrations and sit-ins in the heady era of the late 1960s.
After dropping out, Mr Corbyn became involved in a variety of left-wing causes, and at the age of 25 was elected a councillor in the north London borough of Haringey, a role he continued to play until his election to Parliament in 1983.
By now, with Labour lurching firmly away from the centrist, post-War consensus politics of Jim Callaghan and with Michael Foot at the helm, Mr Corbyn was on the extreme left of his party. When Tony Benn ran for the party’s deputy leadership in 1980, losing to Denis Healey, he is said to have called for MPs on the soft-left who failed to back his candidacy - including Neil Kinnock, who would become leader himself in 1983 and was far from a right-winger - to be purged.
After winning selection for the safe Labour seat of Islington North, Mr Corbyn was elected an MP at the age of 33.
Since then, it seems there is not a lefty cause he has not supported, from Irish unity to the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. He has a column in the former Communist tabloid the Morning Star and is a strict vegetarian.
In 1986 he manned the picket lines at Wapping and laid a wreath at the Cenotaph in honour of Blair Peach, the anti-fascism campaigner killed by an unidentified police officer during a demonstration. He came close to being jailed for refusing to pay the poll tax.
And his politics are not confined to these shores. He has said that his ethnically-diverse constituency, with “roots and family scattered across the globe," inspired him to take a broader view of politics than most MPs, and his campaigns, from Palestine to Venezuela and beyond, have won him a number of accolades including the Gandhi International Peace Award.

Jeremy Corbyn is vice-chairman of CND
A prominent anti-apartheid activist, he was arrested in 1984 during a picket of the South African embassy, and was among the first to warn of the dangers of arming the Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.
Weeks after the Brighton bomb in which the IRA came within a whisker of wiping out Margaret Thatcher’s Cabinet, Mr Corbyn caused outrage by inviting members of Sinn Fein including Gerry Adams to the Commons.
In 1987 he observed a minute’s silence for the eight IRA members killed by the SAS in an ambush in Gibraltar. His decision to hire Ronan Bennett, the novelist whose conviction for murder and terrorist offences had recently been overturned, as a researcher led to the Speaker banning the writer from Parliament.
An assiduous campaigner on behalf of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six, he put up bail for Paul Hill, a constituent and one of the victims of one of the worst miscarriages of justice of the Troubles, when he was freed pending appeal, and attended his prison wedding.
Despite being comfortable with use of the armed struggle within politics, Mr Corbyn steers clear of violence himself. Having once infuriated the maverick Robert Kilroy Silk, then just about still a Labour MP, he ducked out of a confrontation in the Commons voting lobby. As Mr Kilroy Silk put his fists up declaring he had been a champion boxer in his youth, Mr Corbyn responded that his sporting prowess had been on the running track before fleeing the scene.
Mr Corbyn’s involvement with Amnesty International, and particularly their campaign against the dictator Augusto Pinochet, led him to meet his wife, Claudia Bracchitta, a Chilean exile.
The couple moved to Finsbury Park and went on to have three children, all boys.
Claudia was not a political wife, keeping away from the world of the Commons, to the extent than many of Mr Corbyn’s colleagues were unaware that he was married.

To fellow parents in Islington, however, he was a familiar sight, cycling to collect his children from primary school.
That changed in 1998, when the news broke that the couple were separating; the principal cause was Claudia’s insistence that she would not send their oldest son Benjamin to the failing Islington comprehensive he had been allocated by the local council.
The couple had argued a decade earlier when she sent the boy to a private Montessori nursery; he went along with it only because they couldn’t find a spot at a council-run facility. Her decision to enrol him at Queen Elizabeth’s grammar school in Barnet, nine miles from their home, was too much. The name of the school alone must have kept him awake at night. Characteristically, Mr Corbyn was at a peace conference in Holland when the news broke, and he returned to home to journalists camped out on his doorstep.
The separation, and its cause, briefly made the couple celebrities. It was the height of the Blair era and the idea of a politician laying down his marriage for his Socialist principles was irresistible to many.
Despite the headlines, the couple managed to stay friends, even remaining in the same house for some time after the split, converting the marital home into two separate flats.
Mr Corbyn settled into a life he described as “parsimonious,” saying: “I don’t spend a lot of money, I lead a very normal life, I ride a bicycle and I don’t have a car.”

The Queen Mother died in 2002
When the house was burgled four years later, the thieves found little of value to pinch, throwing his red blazer - with which he had scandalised the Commons by wearing it following the death of the Queen Mother - out of the window of their getaway car in disgust.
A long-standing anti-monarchist, he had once petitioned Tony Blair to move the entire Royal Family out of Buckingham Palace and into a “more modest” dwelling.
By now Mr Corbyn had become a thorn in the side of New Labour. There were reports ahead of the 2001 general election that he was being leaned on to stand down. If true, the leaners were spectacularly unsuccessful. He was reelected with a majority of 8,000 and has increased his margin of victory at every election since; it now stands at 21,000.
Back in 2002, when a little black notebook was mislaid by a member of the Whips’ Office, one of its least surprising secrets was a jotting about Mr Corbyn, who was described simply as: "Jeremy Cor Bin-Laden".
It is perhaps no wonder Mr Corbyn is unpopular with the whips: since 2005 he has defied them by voting against the party line on more than 500 occasions, an astonishing 25 per cent of the time.

In 2006 he briefly toyed with the idea of standing for the deputy leadership on a ticket of having opposed the war in Iraq before concluding, with Tony Blair still leader and New Labour a force to be reckoned with, that he didn’t have a hope.
Over the years Mr Corbyn’s reputation has mellowed even if his politics haven’t. In an era before facial hair was considered trendy, he won the Parliamentary Beard of the Year no less than five times.
His standing was burnished following the expenses scandal when it emerged that he was officially the cheapest MP in the Commons, telling his local paper it was important to respect public money.
As he stands now for the leadership of his party, Mr Corbyn is said by one commentator who knew him as a young man to retain all the views he picked up on his first demonstration as a student in the 1960s.
It remains to be seen whether the Labour Party at large shares those views.

{
            "type": "countdown",
            "options": {
                'startDate': '2012/05/08 00:00:00Z',
                'endDate': '2015/09/11 23:00:00Z',
                'progressBar': true,
                'reverse': false
            }
        }
    

 Days until new Labour leader announced