http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48ce7758/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cuknews0C11790A9350Ckids0Ecompany0Eturned0Eblind0Eeye0Eto0Etheft0Esays0Ewhistleblower0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kids Company closure: Camila Batmanghelidjh turned a blind eye to thefts says whistleblower - Telegraph

By 
											John Bingham, Social Affairs Editor
10:00PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Senior staff at Kids Company turned a blind eye to the suspected theft of thousands of pounds taxpayers' money by one of the charity’s “favoured” clients – an alleged drug user who drove a BMW, a whistleblower has claimed.
A psychotherapist who worked there at the time, said the incident in which about £10,000 allegedly went missing was indicative of “chaos” at the charity which collapsed this week amid a spiralling cash crisis days after receiving a £3 million Government lifeline.
He said it came against the backdrop of a situation in which a group of troubled young people close to the charity’s founder Camila Batmanghelidjh, and nicknamed “the chosen ones”, were allowed wide access to the group’s London head office.
Staff leaving as Kids Company closed earlierb this week
Miss Batmanghelidjh acknowledged that there was a group of young adults who were allowed to “hang about” at the charity’s head office but said this was partly because they also received treatment for mental health issues there.
The unusual combination of administration and therapy meant it was like a “daily psychiatric hospital, mixed in with the life of the office”, she said.
But she insisted it was wrong to perceive the group as her “favourites” and said she was unaware of any such theft taking place.

The theft allegations follows claims that staff had known about sexual complaints relating to young people linked with the charity.
An investigation by the BBC's Newsnight and BuzzFeed News found that girls then aged 16 to 18, alleged that that male clients of Kids Company in their 20s had been forcing them to have sex and commit sexual acts.
Two witnesses alleged that complaints had been made known to relevant members of staff at the Urban Academy in Southwark, one of Kids Company’s main centres.
But Ms Batmanghelidjh said police had brought the allegation to the charity's attention recently and it would have "absolutely dealt with it very robustly" if it had emerged before then.
The psychotherapist said police had been called after what he recalled as at least £10,000 was taken from the charity’s finance department in the spring of 2012 but no-one had been arrested.
He said evidence strongly pointed towards one man, who he understood to be using drugs, and who regularly came to the head office to collect cash hand-outs of well over £300.
He explained: “They tracked CCTV [afterwards] and saw that he came into the head office on the CCTV in reception and never came out.
“Someone said they saw him on the fifth floor at six o’clock, which is a floor which is rarely used.
“That night just over £10,000 in cash went missing from the finance department. I know that a good proportion of this money is from donors but a significant portion is public money.”
He said he had discussed the matter with senior figures at the time.
“They were obviously concerned about this chap but nothing ever came of it,” he said.
“That was an example of the chaos.
“I don’t know whether any effort was made to inform the police just how much Kids Company actually knew - but everyone knew it was him and nothing came of it.
“He came back and used to taunt me before I left there, he used to walk past and take the mick.
“He drove a BMW and had a flat.”
He added: “In the office there was always Camilla’s entourage of favoured kids just allowed to roam free in that office.
“There were always thefts – I remember an iPad went missing, a gym bag, my mobile phone went missing, there was always a thief in there.
“What is tragic about these favourite kids is that behind Camilla’s back they used to refer to her as the cash machine on the second floor.”
Asked about the alleged theft Miss Batmanghelidjh said “impossible – I’m not aware of anything” but said she would investigate with the finance department.
Camila Batmanghelidjh, director and founder of Kids Company  Photo: Heathcliff O'Malley/The Telegraph
She added that it was true that there some clients perceived as her “favourites” but said this was unfair and referred to a group of young adults with mental health issues whom she had known since they were children.
“This group tend to hang about in the office and we try to find jobs for them to do because they can’t go out and get proper jobs,” she explained.
“The reason why they are perceived as my favourites is because it is actually me and the consultant psychiatrists and the psychoanalytic psychotherapists who are actually dealing with that group, and then when we have a team of key workers around them.
“So we look after them all from head office – it’s a bit like a daily psychiatric hospital, mixed in with the life of the office.”