http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48ce7b38/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cuknews0C117910A180CKids0ECompany0Escandal0Eit0Ewas0Eright0Eto0Egive0E3m0Elast0Echance0EDavid0ECameron0Einsists0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kids Company scandal: it was right to give £3m ‘last chance’, David Cameron insists - Telegraph

By 
											John Bingham, and Steven Swinford
10:45PM BST 07 Aug 2015
David Cameron has defended the decision to pump £3 million into the charity Kids Company days before its collapse, insisting it was right to give it “one last chance”.
Ministers had been anxious to save the charity to “continue its excellent work” if at all possible, he said.
His comments came as its founder and former chief executive Camila Batmanghelidjh joined workers from the charity who had marched to the gates of Downing Street to protest over the closure of the charity.
It also emerged that the acting Labour leader Harriet Harman had personally written to the Chancellor George Osborne last month urging him to provide a cash lifeline to save the charity after financial problems came to light.
Miss Batmanghelidjh stepped down from day-to-day control of Kids Company last month after the Cabinet Office said it was withholding a much-needed £3 million grant unless urgent management changes were out in place.
That money was finally paid past week as part of a rescue package intended to restructure the charity.
But only days later it closed its doors after a leading donor who had been planning to match the Government grant pulled out after it came to light that sexual allegations were being investigated by police.
Camila Batmanghelidjh
Mr Cameron said: "The Government thought it was the right thing to do to give this charity one last chance of restructuring to try and make sure it could continue its excellent work.
"Sadly that didn't happen not least because of the allegations that were made and private donors withdrawing their money.
"But I think the Government was right to say, 'Let's have one last go,' to try and keep this charity going, given the excellent work its done for so many young people."
His remarks echoed the time of a letter to the Chancellor last month by Ms Harman, whose constituency of Camberwell and Peckham in south London is served by Kids Company.
“Most of the children at Kids Company have found their own way there because their needs have not been adequately met by any of the statutory agencies,” she said.
“Because the charity takes children from all around London and other cities, it does not receive local authority funding.
“The charity is mainly financed by private donations but currently receives financial assistance from the Government as well. I strongly believe that Kids Company should receive proper government funding.”