
By Harriet Sergeant
8:00PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Charismatic, warm and cuddly in bright dazzling clothes, she cut an exotic but nurturing mother figure - as far away as you can get from a 'yummy mummy’. She appeared to have given up all interest in herself and all vanity. The kids came first. We all know mothers like that. But they are mothers to their own children. Camila Batmanghelidjh mothered a whole charity.
But now Kids Company has closed. Some of its staff have not been paid and holidays for some of the youngsters have been cancelled. This is from a charity that had a £24.5 million budget for this year - and received £3million only last week from the government.
What has gone so catastrophically wrong that a charity should run out of so much money and so quickly? Is the woman at its helm saint or sinner?
Batmanghelidjh's passionate defences of the mounting allegations pitted against her charity, this week, have certainly had more than an air of the persecuted martyr about them - hinting now, that she is the holder of dark secrets and an establishment plot is the reason for the charity’s collapse.
“I am being suppressed because I know about sexual abuse claims against senior people," she told Victoria Derbyshire on BBC2 on Wednesday. Claims she repeated, in tears, to Vanessa Feltz on BBC London on Thursday, and again to LBC’s Iain Dale, yesterday morning. “I think they’re trying, generally, to get rid of people who are challenging them about child sexual abuse issues,” she maintained.
Yesterday, she added a charge of sexual discrimination. “Because I don’t wear a suit and because I don’t carry a briefcase and I have not bought into the corporate package, and essentially because I’m a woman and I work with children, people assume I don’t understand finances and can’t organise systems.”
So, as much sinned against as sinning? Who yet, can say.
What is certain is that, for too long, questioning Camila’s integrity was as offensive as questioning Mother Teresa’s motivation, so much adulation has she received since founding Kids Company 20 years ago.
She was Kids Company. It was her project. So to understand her is, perhaps, to begin to understand where the charity has gone wrong.
I first encountered Batmanghelidjh nine years ago when I was researching a report on children in care.
At my first meeting at Kids Company, I watched her dazzle a group of businessmen with claims about the link between emotional development, brain size and violent behaviour. She talked passionately and with love, using not just the language of a mother - which has so charmed everyone from David Cameron to Coldplay - but a mother who had the backing of science for her method of loving.
Whatsoever you think of these claims, it did the trick.
In the middle of the meeting, she excused herself. One of her kids was having a crisis and needed to talk to her. The businessmen watched her leave admiringly.
One said, “Imagine a kid like that interrupting us in the middle of a meeting!” They all shook their heads in envy. I marvelled at her cleverness. Would any one of those businessman have put up with a female colleague running out of a meeting to take a call from a sick child? Yet Camila had done that and more, turning a vulnerable young person into every businessman’s must-have accessory.
Batmanghelidjh surrounded by Gwyneth Paltrow, Stella McCartney and Claudia Schiffer, charmed celebrities and MPs alike
That sudden phone call, the child in crisis, was by no means a one-off. It appeared to be almost a leadership technique. She employed it yet again when under pressure on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme this week, declaring vehemently that a young person so upset at the closure of Kids Company had called, threatening to throw himself onto a railtrack.
There can, of course, be no doubt that thousands of young people feel let down, even suicidal, because of broken homes, state indifference and the lack of mental health care. Their tragedy should neither be diminished nor dismissed. But it seems strange that one of them always happens to phone Camila when she needs it.
The first hint of a gap between the almost saintly figure she presented and reality also came during that first visit to the Urban Academy - Kids Company’s post-16 educational and lifeskills centre - in south-east London. She said that 50 or 60 youngsters turned up every day for a nutritious lunch - “pouring in” was how she described them on the Today programme.
But instead of large numbers of kids arriving malnourished and stunted, as one journalist had claimed previously, I saw just one child. When I visited a second time I saw more children, but they were frank about why they attended. It was only on a Friday - because Friday was when they received an envelope filled with cash - between £50 and £200. “Friday was weed heaven,” one young beneficiary declared - this in a clip played to Batmanghelidjh during the Today programme interview.
To me, Batmanghelidjh’s response was particularly telling. Quick as a flash, she rallied: “Do you know his background?” Presenter John Humphrys mercifully cut her off before she could reveal it, leaving her counter-alleging that, “journalists have been paying our kids” to say such things.
Camila Batmanghelidjh has denied financial mismanagement, despite admitting the charity lived a 'hand to mouth' existence and took on more cases than it could afford
Whether saint or sinner, she is certainly no fool. Numbers for a charity are crucial. Numbers determine donations and government funding. Surely Batmanghelidjh knew what was going on in her centres in London, Bristol and Liverpool?
I debated raising my concerns back then in 2009. In the end, I decided not to. I described my visits in a report on children in care for the Centre for Policy Studies and in my book, Among the Hoods - My Years with a Teenage Gang. But I did not identify the charity.
Why? From my interviews with young people in care and my friendships with gang members, I, more than most, understood that the need for a charity like Kids Company is huge.
Batmanghelidjh forceful personality and astounding ability to generate good PR and attract funds kept these kids in the public eye. They are the forgotten flotsam of society, the same sorts of desperately vulnerable kids that gangs, such as those in Rotherham and Oxfordshire, (not to mention individuals such as Jimmy Savile) abuse - safe in the knowledge that no one really cares about them.
Camila Batmanghelidjh, I believed, did really care and fought hard kept them visible. But was my decision to keep quiet about some of what I’d seen and the concerns the right decision? Now I am not so sure.
The raft of allegations now mounting against Kids Company seem all the more shocking perhaps because Batmanghelidjh has, for so long, presented herself as the all embracing matriarchal figure who will make every right. It is as if you suddenly glimpsed your own mother drunk - or realised she may not always, whether wilfully or ignorantly, have been acting in your best interests.
A mother should not have favourites, but Camila Batmanghelidjh did. I remember so clearly one teenage girl I met at the centre. She claimed she had become very close to Camila and told her all her secrets, “Then you dropped me!” she exclaimed, as if Camila was sitting right next to me.
Camila Batmanghelidjh
This was one girl’s word, but over the years I heard many other youngsters say the same. And this week, along with allegations of financial mismanagement, claims of a culture of fear and favouritism are emerging.
A postgraduate student who worked for several months as an intern at the London headquarters spoke, yesterday, of amazement at the ethos, extravagance and ineffectiveness she witnessed there.
“It seemed to me that people really are scared of [Miss Batmanghelidjh] … She seemed to have favourites and if you weren’t one that was made clear,” she said.
As yet, Camila Batmanghelidjh - who this weekend will be continuing her vehement defence of Kids Company and her own conduct - has not responded to every such specific claim. But of all the accusations being thrown at her, financial mismanagement is the hardest to deny.
And it is a sad commentary on our modern elite, who have used association with St Camila and the youngsters she worked with as PR accessories, without questioning too deeply how or where the money was being spent. If they had, they might have discovered a very different story.