Kids Company chief to step down amid 'unprecedented financial strain' - Telegraph

By Agency
2:10PM BST 03 Jul 2015
Campaigner and Kids Company chief Camila Batmanghelidjh, who regularly appears on television, is to step down.
The leading children's charity will also cut staff and appoint a new chief executive because of ''unprecedented financial strain''.
• Children's charity 'has £3m government funding withheld until head steps down'
The high-profile campaigner and founder of Kids Company Camila Batmanghelidjh is to take up a new advocacy and clinical role once her replacement as chief executive has been appointed.
Ms Batmanghelidjh has rejected reports bad management of funds at the charity has led to Government pressure for a restructure - insisting such claims are a ''red herring''.
She has run the charity since 1996 and worked closely with several governments - including David Cameron's administration.
The Government is reportedly withholding a £3 million grant until a new structure is in place.
In a statement, the charity said: ''In partnership with a city-based group of philanthropists, the charity is being supported by the new government to create a more sustainable organisation and funding structure that will be better able to tolerate unpredictable income streams in the future.
''Camila Batmanghelidjh, the founder and chief executive of Kids Company will not be leaving the organisation and will assume an advocacy and clinical role after the appointment of a new chief executive.''
It added ''core services'' would still be delivered though it would be ''reducing its staff levels''.
Ms Batmanghelidjh earlier told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme she had always planned to leave the chief executive post next year after 20 years.
She said: ''We have been debating with government and having a challenging discussion because Kids Company is taking care of far too many mentally ill children and children who are not being protected robustly.''
• My space: Camila Batmanghelidjh, of the Kids Company charity
Ms Batmanghelidjh continued: ''My interest is to make sure the children are OK.
''But what I am trying to explain is these arguments are being put out to avoid the real discussion which is there are large numbers of children who are unprotected in this country and who are not receiving appropriate help.
''What I am trying to explain is since the Blair government we have received repeated government funding - if we were so dysfunctional and we were not reporting and accounting for things, why have several governments given us money?
''This argument has emerged recently because government is not facing its responsibilities robustly.''

Ms Batmanghelidjh said 19 years of audits and a study by the London School of Economics had not revealed problems with the way the charity - which has a £24.5 million budget for 2015/16 - managed money.
She said: ''I want to do clinical work - but that is not the point. We are having an argument about something that is a red herring.
''This is briefing to avoid the real issues.
''I have to believe and hope this is not from David Cameron's office. It so happens the type of briefing they are now delivering is one in which they are attempting to discredit me, so my message is weakened.''
Ms Batmanghelidjh challenged government officials to bring forward a list of problems if there were genuine concerns about her running of Kids Company.
• Camila Batmanghelidjh: 'I'd like to open these centres everywhere'
Of the Prime Minister, she added: ''I pray to God it is not coming from David Cameron and his team, I still have to have faith he wants to do the right thing by children.''
Alan Yentob, the chairman of the board of trustees, said the changes would protect Kids Company.
He said: ''Camila Batmanghelidjh and the staff of Kids Company have created a highly effective model of care and support for the most vulnerable children in society which should be recognised and valued as a national asset.
''The board and I, with the backing of a philanthropic group have ensured that this is protected and that Kids Company will continue to offer safety, protection and loving care to some of society's most vulnerable children.''
The charity was founded by Ms Batmanghelidjh in 1996 and provides support to vulnerable inner-city children, young people and families.
The BBC said the charity's latest accounts show it relies on the Government for £4 million of its £20 million funding.
Following a joint investigation with BuzzFeed, the BBC's Newsnight reported that, in order to meet the Government's funding ultimatum, officials have suggested Ms Batmanghelidjh should take the non-executive position of ''president''.
Mr Cameron, who has shared a platform with Ms Batmanghelidjh in the past, has previously defended the charity's funding against efforts by ministers and officials in the Cabinet Office and Department for Education to cut it or intervene, the programme said.
Officials indicate that Justice Secretary Michael Gove and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Oliver Letwin have supported a tougher approach to the charity.
A Cabinet Office spokeswoman said: ''Making sure that every child has the best start in life is our top priority, so we will continue to work with Kids Company to ensure its important work is sustained.''
The development is the latest blow to hit the charity. In March, Kids Company's interim finance director, head of human resources and director of development all resigned amid claims of concerns about its funding and ''high levels of stress within the workplace'', the Sunday Times said.
Number 10 confirmed that the Cabinet Office pushed for changes to the charity's management set-up but denied any briefing against Ms Batmanghelidjh from within Downing Street.
The Prime Minister's official spokeswoman declined to be drawn on claims Mr Cameron had overruled concerns in other parts of Whitehall and demanded the charity continue to receive funding.
Dominic Cummings, a former adviser to Michael Gove at the Department for Education and a long-term critic of the PM - said Number 10 "screwed it".
He wrote on Twitter that officials told the then Education Secretary the charity funding would stop after officials warned of "financial chaos" and "no proper controls" on how money was being spent.
But they were told that Mr Cameron said they should "give KC what they want".
"It's another mini case study in what happens when you run No10 according to whims of crap spin doctors. Hopefully things changing," he said.
Mr Cameron's official spokeswoman said: "The Government's priority is to do all it can to make sure every child has the best start in life.
"As part of that the Cabinet Office has been working to continue to support Kids Company duri ng the difficult situation that they face.
"As part of ensuring that that work is put on a sustainable footing they have requested changes to their management structure, which is in the best interests of the charity.
"I think that reflects the fact that we recognise the important work that they do and the Government's commitment to helping to support children."
Asked twice if the PM was a fan of Ms Batmanghelidjh, she said: "What the PM wants to see is the Government doing all we can to make sure that every child has the best start in life and making sure that Kids Company can help to play a role in that."
But on the suggestion Number 10 was behind negative briefing, she told reporters: "That is not true".
Acting Labour leader Harriet Harman, whose Camberwell and Peckham constituency is home to the charity, said: "There is evidence of the need among children and young people in Southwark for what Kids Company provides.
"They work with some of our most deprived and vulnerable children and young people.
"The Government made a promise to them before the election to fund them. They should keep their promise.
"The Government should work with Camila who is the founder and inspirational leader".