http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48c7fcb4/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0C117889230CKids0ECompany0Eboss0ECamila0EBatmanghelidjh0Eturned0EHQ0Einto0Eprivate0EAladdins0Eden0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kids Company boss Camila Batmanghelidjh turned HQ into private 'Aladdin's den' - Telegraph

By James Rothwell and John Bingham
4:20PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Camila Batmanghelidjh, the founder of the bankrupt Kids Company, ran the charity as a personal empire from an office that looked like an “Aladdin’s den”, former workers have claimed.
The full extent of waste at the charity which received millions of pounds of public money began to emerge as officials began crisis talks with other charities after the group suddenly closed down amid a spiralling financial crisis.
Just days earlier, ministers defied concerns from Whitehall officials to hand it another £3 million, after receiving promises to overhaul its management and leadership.
Around £800,000 of the grant, approved by the Cabinet Office ministers Oliver Letwin and Matthew Hancock, was allegedly used to pay salaries at the charity, which has seen its staff numbers swell in recent years.
Downing Street insisted that it had handed the money over in “good faith” as part of a “strict” rescue package to secure the charity’s future.
Sources in the child protection sector said that despite the Government’s support for Kids Company, it was viewed with suspicion by other groups who felt frustrated at a lack of apparent accountability.
As Miss Batmanghelidjh vehemently denied that financial mismanagement was the cause of Kids Company’s collapse, new allegations emerged of lavish spending and claims that there was a culture of fear and favouritism at the charity.
They included claims that people ​were employed straight off the street, while Miss Batmanghelidjh allegedly had up to five personal assistants at one point.
A postgraduate student who worked for several months as an intern at the charity’s London headquarters spoke of amazement at seeing the flamboyant style of Miss Batmanghelidjh’s office.
Staff members begin to remove items as the Kids Company closes its building in Camberwell
“Her office was like an Aladdin’s den, with a tree in the middle, it was bizarre,” she said.
“I was so pro-Kids Company, but even on day one I just couldn’t believe the waste. The ethos is great and when she first started I think she was very well-intentioned, but having the attention of celebrities around her, her ego seems just to have got bigger and bigger.
“However, I feel that the charity may have become caught up in the attention of the media and powerful politicians, as well as becoming overzealous when hiring staff.”
She added: “I felt that it was extremely overstaffed and that the money from salaries could be better spent elsewhere.
• Alan Yentob: I was right to act on BBC coverage of Kids Company
“Three people told me they had simply been employed off the street; one worked in a bank, another was working in a legal firm.”
Significantly, the young woman disclosed that the charity had asked her to help compile an “evidence base” about its work to present to the Cabinet office as part of its bid for millions of pounds of taxpayers’ money.
The absence of robust evidence to show whether the charity’s work with children was effective was one reason why ministers previously questioned whether to renew the group’s funding.
In a scathing feedback report written earlier this year, seen by the Telegraph, she described the charity as “extremely overstaffed” and hopelessly inefficient. She also claimed that the charity effectively doctored its own statistics. She said she had been deeply disillusioned after seeing staff asking children to change what they had written on satisfaction questionnaires if they gave the “wrong answer”.
She also said: “It seemed to me that people really are scared of [Miss Batmanghelidjh] … She seemed to have favourites and if you weren’t one that was made clear.”
One source familiar with the child protection system said: “I think there are a lot of people with egg on their face over Kids Company and Camila Batmanghelidjh in particular.
“She has almost achieved sainthood over the years. Nobody said ‘hang on, who is this person?’ or ‘where is the money going?’.”
Phil Frampton, of the White Flowers Campaign Group, an umbrella organisation for abuse survivors’ groups, said there was real resentment from other groups at the perceived special treatment towards Kids Company by successive governments.
“I think the Government and Batmanghelidjh have behaved despicably in letting the children down,” he said.
“They should have ensured that the kids and service users were guaranteed a transition.”
Miss Batmanghelidjh said she needed several personal assistants because she has to dictate all her written communication.
“I have very severe learning difficulties so I can’t use a computer and so I have to dictate everything,” she said.
“Consequently because I am working from around eight in the morning to about 11 or 12 at night, the PAs have to rotate.
“When I fundraise I write each letter personally – or I sign it personally, so everything I have to dictate.
“The reason I have several PAs is that, first, they share the morning and evening slots and, second, one of them has to be a clinical PA because I work therapeutically with children.
“Because fundraising is so difficult I also have to do a bit of work on a Saturday and a Sunday so the PAs share the Saturday and the Sunday slot as well.”
She added: “I think all this stuff about waste is unjust – we are actually quite under-resourced.
“What you’ve got to bear in mind is that we were processing from this office 10,0000 volunteers a year who come in to do all sorts of activities with Kids Company, we have partnerships with 270 companies, from whom we receive volunteers.
“Then we’ve got another team who are responsible for 500 students from nursing and therapeutic courses coming in to do their work experience, they get processed from the head office.”
She added that the flamboyant decoration of her office, described as like an Aladdin’s Den, was deliberate.
“The reason the office is quite childlike is that it is not meant as an administrative office only – I also see children for therapy in it and therefore it has got play equipment.
“It has got a little duck pond so that kids can do their ‘family setting’ stuff there – if they can’t talk directly about something they can use the toys.
"It has got a lot of trinkets for the kids and the teenagers to use. It is there in that fashion for good reason.”