http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48ce6096/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0Clabour0C117912630CLiz0EKendall0Ehits0Eout0Eat0Eunfounded0Esex0Esmears0Bhtml/story01.htm
Labour leadership candidate Liz Kendall hits out at 'sex smears' - Telegraph

By 
											Rosa Prince, Assistant Political Editor
10:00PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Liz Kendall has accused her Labour leaderships rivals of spreading "smears" and false rumours after she was forced to deny suggestions she is in a relationship with her campaign manager.
Miss Kendall, 44, has been the subject of unfounded claims in Labour circles that she is in a relationship with John Woodcock, a fellow MP who is recently divorced.
Mr Woodcock, speaking with Miss Kendall's permission, last night took the unusual step of publicly stating that the claims were "not true, has never been true and would never be true".
He told The Telegraph that Miss Kendall is being subjected to a "systematic" smear campaign as he vowed to expose those responsible and sue them for slander.
Miss Kendall was previously left furious after she was branded the "Taliban New Labour candidate" by her rivals.
She has also described the campaign as "sexist" and allies have accused her rivals of deliberately highlighting the fact she does not have any children.
Mr Woodcock said that the latest, highly personal rumours "must stop now". He said: “People who are spreading these rumours about Liz and me need to remember how much damage these acts of smear can do.
“This is clearly being done systematically, to damage Liz’s campaign. It is totally unacceptable and that is why I have decided to talk about this publicly. It is hurtful for my family, and it is designed to make things difficult for Liz.
“This has given me a small insight into the kind of difficulty so many women come across, when it is said that they are only where they are because they are sleeping with someone or someone fancies them.”
Mr Woodcock said that the tactic of spreading false rumours about rivals had been common in the Labour Party in the past, but “must not be part of its future”.
He vowed to expose the identity of the person who first set tongues wagging about a month ago when Miss Kendall, who is now seen as the rank outsider in the race, was in a far more advantageous position and seen by her rivals as a credible threat.
All three of Miss Kendall’s opponents have promised that they would not get personal, but seem unable to stop their camps briefing against each other.
Relations between the four contenders, who include Andy Burnham and Yvette Cooper, are now at a low, with one camp yesterday accusing another of planting “dark” stories in newspapers.
Miss Kendall rarely discusses her private life, but is thought to have been single since separating from the comedian Greg Davies earlier this year.
She was upset early in the contest when Helen Goodman, an MP supporting Mrs Cooper, who is married to the ex-MP Ed Balls and has three children, said her candidate would make a better leader because she is a mother. Her words were taken as an implied attack on Miss Kendall.

The rumours which were circulating about Miss Kendall and Mr Woodcock included the suggestion that they had holidayed together in France, along with his young children.
Mr Woodcock’s ex-wife, Mandy Telford, is herself a supporter of Miss Kendall. One Labour insider told The Telegraph: “About 60 different people have told me the rumour about Liz and John. Everyone was talking about it.”
They added: “Liz is doing so badly at the moment, I wonder if they have decided to go public just to make a last splash in the contest.
Mr Woodcock has insisted that he only spoke out about the issue because he was asked about it by journalists.

{
            "type": "countdown",
            "options": {
                'startDate': '2012/05/08 00:00:00Z',
                'endDate': '2015/09/11 23:00:00Z',
                'progressBar': true,
                'reverse': false
            }
        }
    

 Days until new Labour leader announced