
By 
											Ben Riley-Smith, Political Correspondent
10:00PM BST 08 Aug 2015
Labour’s biggest individual donors have pledged to stop giving money if Jeremy Corbyn becomes leader in a move that could leave the party almost entirely dependent on trade union funding.
Five senior donors have told The Telegraph that Mr Corbyn’s victory would be “disastrous” and could lead to Labour being locked out of power for decades.
Millions of pounds of funding from businessmen may be withheld if the Mr Corbyn, the hard-Left candidate and apparent front-runner, wins the contest on September 12.
It is the first time the party’s biggest financial backers have spoken out about Mr Corbyn, with only John Mills, the party’s top individual donor, having voiced concerns until now.
The revelation has triggered fears that Labour’s attempts to rebuild links with industry would be undermined and its dependence on union funding heightened under Mr Corbyn.
Labour leadership contenders: Andy Burnham, Liz Kendall, Jeremy Corbyn, Yvette Cooper  Photo: Agency One of Andy Burnham, Liz Kendall, Jeremy Corbyn and Yvette Cooper will be revealed as the new Labour leader on September 12
Assem Allam, the multi-millionaire who has recently given Labour more than half a million pounds, attacked the party for missing the “message” from voters that hard-Left parties lose elections.
He pledged to stop giving money if Mr Corbyn becomes Labour leader, saying: “I never back a dead horse”.
Richard Brindle, who gave £100,000 under Ed Miliband, also ruled out donating should Mr Corybn win due to his “economically illiterate” policies.

A third donor, who has given a six-figure sum and spoke under the condition of anonymity, said a Corbyn victory would be electoral “suicide” and leave Labour in opposition for 20 years.
Other leading donors including Mr Mills declined to promise they would continue giving if Mr Corbyn wins and openly criticised his Left-wing economic platform.
The backlash comes after a week in which the apparent surge in support for Mr Corbyn, the veteran Islington North MP, showed little sign of slowing.
Hundreds of supporters, many of them in their twenties and thirties, queued round the block to hear him speak at packed public rallies across the country.
With little over a month left before the result, there is real concern among centrist Labour MPs that the hard-Left candidate – who only made the ballot after being “lent” support – could become leader.
However Mr Corbyn’s hard-Left economic agenda, which includes raising the top rate of income tax, rejecting austerity and large-scale renationalisation, is driving away crucial donors.
He has suggested reopening coal mines and bringing energy companies back into public ownership – a move that would cost the government up to £185 billion, according to City analysts.
One analysis conducted by a Labour Party insider and leaked to the press estimated ‘Corbynomics’ would results in £55bn more government spending and £14bn worth of tax rises.
Mr Corbyn, first elected to Parliament in 1983, has also expressed admiration for Karl Marx during the leadership campaign, calling the communist philosopher’s analysis “quite brilliant”.
A string of Labour’s financial backers openly attacked Mr Corbyn after being approached by this newspaper and warned against supporters backing him in the contest.
“If Jeremy Corbyn or any left-winger wins, Labour will lose next election and the one after,” said Mr Allam, the owner of Hull City who has given more than £500,000 to the party in the last three years.
“I don’t want a Prime Minister or a leader of the party – in opposition or in government – who is controlled by trade unions. It will not work.”
Jeremy Corbyn: Labour could reopen coal mines and nationalise gas and electricity sector
Jeremy Corbyn: rich people are happy to pay more tax
Jeremy Corbyn refuses to condemn IRA for terrorist atrocities
He said supporters would be “insane” to pick a leader who is to the Left of Mr Miliband and warned that the election defeat showed “the nation says no to left-wing Labour”.
Asked if he would give money to the party if Mr Corbyn becomes leader, Mr Allam replied: “People who know me know I never back a dead horse.”
Mr Brindle, an insurance mogul, also pledged to give no more cash. “He is a man of great integrity but his policies are economically illiterate and a lot of them just aren’t practical either. It is just not a realistic platform for government,” he said. “It is a bit of a time warp to be honest.”
A third donor, who asked not to be named, indicated he would not give again under Mr Corbyn’s leadership.
“If Corbyn wins it's back to the nightmare of the 1980s with Labour split from top to toe and handing the Tories almost 20 years in power,” the donor said. “New European parties like Syriza and Podemos don't split the Left vote under proportional representation but under our British voting system it's suicide.”

{
            "type": "countdown",
            "options": {
                'startDate': '2012/05/08 00:00:00Z',
                'endDate': '2015/09/11 23:00:00Z',
                'progressBar': true,
                'reverse': false
            }
        }
    

 Days until new Labour leader announced
Other top donors openly criticised Mr Corbyn. Mr Mills, who has given £1.65 million to Labour through shares, said he was “not very convinced” by his economic policies, adding: “There is some danger it is more difficult for Labour to win elections on the platform that Jeremy Corbyn would favour .”
Stefanos Stefanou, who has given almost £200,000, said he would continue donating to the party whatever the outcome but would be “concerned” by tax rises. “You cannot tax businesses to the extent that you destroy them. There has to be a medium somewhere,” he said.
Asked whether he would donate again to Labour if Jeremy Corbyn won, Lord Sugar – presenter of The Apprentice – put down the phone. He gave more than £150,000 to under Mr Miliband.
There was a sole voice of support for Mr Corbyn. Steve Lazarides, a gallery owner who deals in works by graffiti artist Banksy and gave £121,000 in 2008, praised him as a “wild card” who could “drag” Labour back to its old socialist roots.
Hull City owner Assem Allam in the stands during the Barclays Premier League match at the KC Stadium, Hull  Photo: Lynne Cameron/PA Assem Allam, who owns Hull City, said Labour would lose the next two elections if it picked a left-wing leader like Mr Corbyn
Trade unions remain Labour’s biggest financial backers, with Unite, which has endorsed Mr Corbyn, giving around £19 million during the last parliament.
But with the Tories reforming the way unions donate in a way that could drastically reduce Labour funding, financial support from individuals is likely to become increasingly important.
Business backers are seen as crucial in the party’s attempts to win back voters, with a host of leading figures including Ed Balls admitting an “anti-business” image helped lose Labour the election.
Baroness Prosser, treasurer of the Labour during Tony Blair’s first term in office, warned the party’s financial position was “precarious” and could deteriorate if Mr Corbyn becomes leader.
“I cannot imagine any person – businessman or otherwise – being prepared to donate to an organisation if they see it as not being properly led,” she said.
“Should Jeremy win then we would be in for a very rocky period both politically, internally and financially.”
John Mills, the founder of JML, also said the party's lack of business support will lose votes and warned the party was likely to miss a majority in May  Photo: JULIAN SIMMONDS FOR THE TELEGRAPH John Mills, Labour's biggest individual donor, warned there was a 'danger' Mr Corbyn would make Labour less electable
A spokesman for Mr Corbyn played down concerns his victory would hurt the party's finances and referenced the fact he has received more than £100,000 in donations through a crowdfunding campaign.
“Britain and Labour cannot continue with economic policies that stifle economic dynamism – instead of five or more years of austerity that chokes off growth. Jeremy Corbyn is proposing investment to build a more innovative and prosperous economic base," the spokesman said.
"Investing in our future, such as with a national investment bank, is the best way to help small and large businesses alike and deliver a sustainable, modern economy. If elected leader, Jeremy will work with business leaders to develop this investment-led agenda.
“Big donors are welcome to donate to our party but we will also listen to those with less money to spend. We are a Democratic Party. Labour's core funding base is small donations by millions of members and trades unionists and Jeremy Corbyn’s campaign has already shown he is capable to add value of rebuilding Labour as a mass grass roots movement for change."