
By 
											Telegraph View
6:30AM BST 09 Aug 2015
Comments
Labour fought the last election on a Left-wing platform – and it lost horribly. Confused and embittered, the party withdrew even further into its comfort zone. Jeremy Corbyn is now tipped as frontrunner in its leadership contest. Contrary to all logic, the hardest of the hard Left is in the ascendant.
Today we report that some of Labour’s biggest individual donors intend to suspend financial support to the party if Mr Corbyn wins the vote. Many of these people are serious businessmen and they tell us that the candidate’s economic policies would be both unpopular and disastrous. Moreover, if they were to withdraw their support then the party would be left largely dependent upon trade union cash – which says so much about the state of the British Left.

Growing union influence reflects the political changes that occurred within Labour when Gordon Brown replaced Tony Blair. Many activists had been uncomfortable with power and with the compromise that it required – they longed for a purer ideological approach. Mr Brown and Ed Miliband gave them their heart’s desire, and during this period of anti-Blair reaction the unions filled the vacuum left by New Labour.

{
            "type": "countdown",
            "options": {
                'startDate': '2012/05/08 00:00:00Z',
                'endDate': '2015/09/11 23:00:00Z',
                'progressBar': true,
                'reverse': false
            }
        }
    

 Days until new Labour leader announced
In other words, the rise and rise of Mr Corbyn is not the product of his unique qualities or charisma. Rather, it is a symptom of a wider post-Blair return to socialism. Last week, Andy Burnham released a manifesto that pledged to abolish tuition fees and renationalise the railways. Meanwhile, Liz Kendall – the only candidate with any grasp of economic reality – is not only marginalised but “smeared” as a closet Tory. The attacks she has endured prove that the Blairites no longer have real influence within their party. Blairism was not a long-term revolution in Left-wing politics. It was just a short break in business-as-usual.
Many on the Right will cheer the idea of a Mr Corbyn-led party with hardly any money to spend on elections. But aside from the risk that some freakish twist of fate could actually put this Left-wing agitator in Number 10, Conservatives also ought to worry about the problem of having no serious opposition. The SNP has no intention of working in the national interest. The Lib Dems have just eight MPs. If only to serve constitutional principle, the Government needs a serious, constructive opposition to hold it to account. At present it has none.
