Litter-lout Britain needs a new broom - Telegraph

By Kirstie Allsopp
8:01AM BST 04 Jul 2015
Comments
Here is a terrible secret of the British class system. Litter is not, and never has been, a class issue. Some people drop rubbish, some don’t. But, as several Peers have this week complained to the Government, the middle classes – even some who would claim to be aristocracy – are by no means free of the blight. From Glastonbury to royal garden parties, every social strata wilfully abandons its detritus, expecting others to pick up after them. It has to stop.
Take the Diamond Jubilee in 2012. Ticket holders were allowed in to Buckingham Palace gardens for a picnic before the concert, and we were all given wonderful hampers of food – It was delicious, but as we drifted away, I was staggered by what people left behind – in Buckingham Palace of all places. There was rubbish everywhere. I found myself muttering: “What in God’s name is wrong with people?”
As Lord Sherbourne of Didsbury, a Tory, and Lord Judd, a Labour peer, have now rightly noticed, we have all lost sight of our responsibilities. People think if they pay their taxes, that gives them a right just to chuck stuff on the ground for others to dispose of. But it doesn’t; tax revenues are for hospitals and schools and other vital services. Not to waste on waste.
The morning after the Glastonbury Festival
There should be a stigma attached to littering, and once, perhaps, there was. No longer. Today, if you call someone a litter bug, they do not blush to the roots of the hair as they should. Instead, they say: “What about the people who pick up the litter? They will lose their jobs.” That, honestly, is the logic of their defence.
In my street – in one of the most privileged parts of London – residents put dog pooh in bags and leave the bags for the council to get rid of. I’ve begged the council just to leave them. After a month, the offenders would surely stop. I was recently out walking with someone who would certainly consider herself “upper class”. Suddenly she spat out her chewing gum on to the pavement. I could hardly believe it, spluttering: “What are you doing?. “Oh yeah ...” she responded feebly.
Fast food packaging is a particular problem because eating junk is so often something we feel guilty about. We don’t want our husbands wives to find out that we have gorged on a take out, so some chuck the leavings from their car window before they get home. Their attitude is: buy it, use it, drop it. But the fact is, when you buy a burger, you own it.
It makes me so angry. I once took a photo of a someone throwing litter out of a car window, and tweeted it. The Guardian then published an article denouncing me as “self-righteous”. Perhaps they thought I was an easy target that their readers would enjoy bashing. But the funny thing was, the majority of their reader reaction ran along the lines of: “I really don’t like Kirstie Allsopp, but she’s right about litter.” The fact is that there are very few black and white issues in life, but this is one of them. It cuts across class, race, gender, everything.
The driver of this car RJ61 EWK is a tosser #teachersnottossers @KeepBritainTidy pic.twitter.com/fPsyNO8asl— Kirstie Mary Allsopp (@KirstieMAllsopp) 
  January 23, 2015
The driver of this car RJ61 EWK is a tosser #teachersnottossers @KeepBritainTidy pic.twitter.com/fPsyNO8asl
And it’s easy to understand why. We spend almost £1bn a year on collecting rubbish. That is a criminal waste of money. The bedroom tax brings in just £500m, and consider the outrage it has caused. Yet some who complain about that, happily go off and drop litter.
I’m afraid the answer is simply to become militant about the issue. Fines should be £500 and if you can’t pay, you should have to give up a day to litter pick. Schoolchildren, too, should take a day each term to help clean up our country. How better to instill the lesson that in life there is not always someone to clean up your mess. Litter is not a class issue, but it should be a classroom issue.