
By 
											Christopher Hope, Chief Political Correspondent
6:54PM BST 02 Jul 2015
Comments
Litter fines must increase because the middle classes no longer see stigma with dropping rubbish, the Government has been told.
The calls came as peers criticised the piles of “rubble and rubbish” left behind at the Glastonbury music festival as “symbolic” of the scale of the problem.
A number of peers hit out at the “appalling” state of towns and countryside, calling for new laws and better enforcement of existing powers.
Labour peer Lord Judd said there was no social class division in littering as “so called yuppies” were just as likely to do it, but it could be a matter of “style”.
He added: “If you’re crossing the road and you’re having the last puff it's almost ballet to watch the last few puffs and then throw the cigarette away.”
Country Life wages war to make litter 'as uncool as smoking and drinking'
Tory Lord Sherbourne of Didsbury said that any local councillor knew that litter and fly-tipping “often arouses more passion than European Union”.
He said the “stigma” of dropping litter had gone and highlighted a particular problem on the London Underground.
“There isn’t a day that passes when you don’t go onto a Tube train and can smell immediately someone is eating a McDonald’s.
“They will have a bag that is soaked in grease placed on seats on which people are going to be sitting.
“There are sandwiches, there are food dripping with mayonnaises all over the place.”
Lord Cormack, a former Tory MP, said some countryside verges were “obliterated” by “all manner of nasty things”.
He said: “This detritus is a product of carelessness, but much more than that of selfishness and sometimes of malevolence.”
The piles of “rubble and rubbish” left behind at Glastonbury was "symbolic of a problem that is very real in our towns and countryside".
Enough rubbish was collected each year to fill Wembley four times over and though people could be fined £2,500 for littering penalties were rarely enforced, he said.
The Government should consider anti-social behaviour orders “for people who deface our towns and countryside in this way”.
Restaurants should be subject to a “takeaway food tax” for fast food outlets that did not do enough to tackle the problem.
Lord Whitty, for the Opposition, said there needed to a “more effective fine”, adding that though there was a maximum fine of £2,500, the fixed penalty notice was only £75.
He said: “A hefty penalty, as we have found in other areas, or one which is properly enforced by the courts if we can't do it entirely by fixed penalties would be a deterrent.”
Lord Gardiner of Kimble, for the Government, littering was “an unacceptable blight” on people’s lives.
The Government had committed in its manifesto to explore the possibility of increasing fines for littering and would carry out a consultation later this year, he said.