http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/47ca38f0/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cuknews0Ccrime0C117147550CMinimum0Ejail0Esentences0Efor0Eknife0Eoffenders0Bhtml/story01.htm
Minimum jail sentences for knife offenders - Telegraph

By 
											Steven Swinford, Deputy Political Editor
12:01AM BST 03 Jul 2015
Criminals convicted of a second knife offence will face jail as David Cameron enacts one of the Conservative's flagship pledges later this month.
Adults convicted of an offence involving a knife for a second time will face minimum sentences of at least six months, while those aged 16 to 18 will get at least four months detention or a training order.
The move will see an additional 1,300 people a year jailed for possession of a knife, with a maximum sentence of up to four years.
Lib Dems blocking plans for stricter knife crime sentences Nick Clegg: Conservative knife crime law is 'knee-jerk' and won't work
Knife crime has been falling steadily, but last year increased by 23 per cent in London and there has been a spate of recent stabbings.
Mike Penning, the criminal justice minister, said: "Your local area should be a safe place to grow up, work, raise a family and retire.
"We are already making sure knife offenders are properly punished and keeping more off the streets for longer, making our communities safer.
"With this new measure we are sending out the strongest message to offenders – repeatedly take a knife onto our streets and expect to go to prison."
The legislation was delayed in the last Parliament after becoming subject to one of the most bitter rows of the Coalition.
Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, tried to block the legislation that the changes were a "knee jerk" reaction and could see people convicted for possession of a pen knife.
Mr Clegg was said to be '"bouncing off the walls" after secret Cabinet correspondence detailing his position was leaked.
However, the Conservatives pushed through the tougher punishments for repeat offenders with the support of Labour in June of last year, with the reform eventually approved by a majority of 404 to 53.
Nick de Bois, the former Conservative MP who was the architect of the legislation in the last Parliament, said: "The message should be loud and clear - we won't tolerate carrying knives anymore. We have had to wait a long time to get this bill enacted because Nick Clegg tried to derail it, but I am delighted the Conservative government have now acted. This act will save lives."
The measure was given Royal Assent in February but the enactment of it has been delayed until now.
Campaigners have claimed that the new law was held back because of the £40million cost each year of dealing with the extra offenders it would catch, along with concerns about the pressure it will put on the prison population.
It comes amid a row between Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan police commissioner, and Theresa May, the Home Secretary, following the rise in stabbings in London.
Sir Bernard wants to increase targeted stop and search in some areas to reduce the number of offences. Mrs May, however, wants to reduce the use of stop and search.