By 
											Simon Johnson, Scottish Political Editor, and Michael Wilkinson, Political Correspondent
3:08PM BST 02 Sep 2015
Nicola Sturgeon is under more pressure from SNP supporters to promise a second referendum after a new poll showed for the first time a majority of Scots would support independence if another vote was staged now.
The Ipsos Mori survey for STV found that 53 per cent of people would vote Yes to separation, compared to 44 per cent who wanted to remain part of the UK and three per cent who were undecided.
The poll of 1,002 Scots also predicted an SNP landslide in next May’s Holyrood election, giving the party a larger majority than it won in 2011, and suggested that Labour would do even worse if Jeremy Corbyn is elected as its UK leader.
Almost three-quarters (71 per cent) said they approve of the way Ms Sturgeon is doing her job, compared to only 28 per cent for David Cameron.
It was published almost a year after Scotland rejected independence by 55.3 per cent to 44.7 per cent and is thought to be the first poll to show a majority for independence among all those questioned.
Previous polls in the run-up to last year’s referendum excluded those who were undecided. Half of those questioned said they would like to see another referendum within five years while 58 per cent said they would be in favour of having one in the next 10 years.
More than half (52 per cent) would back another referendum if the UK voted to leave the EU, 41 per cent if Trident was renewed and 50 per cent if the Tory plan for English votes for English laws at Westminster was approved
Ms Sturgeon is under pressure from SNP members, tens of thousands of whom joined the party after the referendum, to promise another reference in the party’s election manifesto.
She has said another vote would be justified if there was a “material change” in Scotland’s circumstances, such as the UK leaving the EU against the will of a majority of Scots, but has said she has no immediate plans for another vote on separation.
Mark Diffley, director at Ipsos Mori Scotland, said: “This poll represents excellent news for the SNP, both in terms of support ahead of next year’s Holyrood vote and because support for independence has moved over 50 per cent for the first time.
“The poll highlights the significant challenges facing new Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale; Labour is far behind the SNP on the key battleground policies for next year and there is no sign yet that they are making up any ground.”
It found that 55 per cent of those who gave a voting intention would back the SNP in the Scottish Parliament constituency vote if the elections were held tomorrow. This compares for just 21 per cent for Labour and 12 per cent for the Tories.
The results would translate into the SNP winning 74 out of 129 seats at Holyrood, with Labour getting only 26 and the Conservatives 15. The Greens would get eight, up from two.
Almost a quarter (23 per cent) said a victory for Jeremy Corbyn in the UK Labour leadership contest would make them more likely to vote Labour, but 34 per cent said they would be less likely to back the party.
Opinion on the recent election of Kezia Dugdale as Scottish Labour leader was split, with 20 per cent saying it made them more likely to back her party, compared to 23 per cent who said it would dissuade them.