By 
											Simon Johnson, Scottish Political Editor
3:57PM BST 02 Sep 2015
Comments
Nicola Sturgeon has given her clearest signal yet she plans to increase income tax on the wealthy from 2018 despite her pledge to make Scotland the “real Northern powerhouse” and the best place in the UK for business.
The First Minister said her government would adopt the “progressive” approach with new income tax powers that it took when designing the Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT), the SNP’s replacement for stamp duty that came into force in April.
She said the property purchase levy took “many people at the bottom end” out of taxation, altogether while asking those add the top to pay “slightly more”.
However, LBTT has been heavily criticised for penalising ordinary middle-class families as well as the rich, with anyone buying a family home worth more than £333,000 paying more and the burden rising steeply for larger properties.
Ms Sturgeon signalled the change will not be made next year, when the Scottish Parliament gets the “very limited” power to vary income tax rates uniformly across all bands.
She pointed out this would mean any increase in the higher or additional rates would also have to be added to the basic rate. However, the Scottish Parliament is expected to get complete control over the levy’s bands and rates in 2018 under powers being devolved in the Scotland Bill.
The Scottish Government is getting control over income tax on earnings  Photo: Alamy
The indication of how she plans to use them came the day after she unveiled her final programme for government before next year’s Holyrood election, in which she promised to use new welfare powers to increase state benefits but did not say how this would be funded.
Earlier this week the Telegraph disclosed warnings from the Scottish Retail Consortium, representing shopkeepers, that any increase in income tax rates would backfire by hitting consumers’ disposable incomes and VAT revenues from sales.
Ms Sturgeon told BBC Radio Scotland she wanted a “progressive system” of income tax and, pressed whether those “who can afford to pay more” should do so, Ms Sturgeon referred to LBTT as an example of the approach she wants to adopt.
“What we have done is create a system that is fair overall but it has taken many people at the bottom end of the property market out of that tax altogether, with those at the very top end of the property market paying slightly more,” she said.
“That’s an illustration in practice of our progressive approach.” However, LBTT has been described by estate agents as a “punitive tax on aspiration” as the crossover point at which it became more expensive than stamp duty was less than the cost of the average four-bedroom home in Edinburgh.
Those buying a £400,000 home are charged £3,350 more than under the previous stamp duty regime, with the tax bill increasing by £8,350 for £500,000 properties and by £20,850 for those buying a £750,000 home. Families buying a £1 million property now pay £34,600 more.
Murdo Fraser, Scottish Tory finance spokesman, said: “Nicola Sturgeon may have attempted to be cagey on the radio – but the SNP’s intention is clear. It wants to hammer hardworking families in order to raise easy money for the public purse.
“If the First Minister focused more on wealth creation and establishing a positive environment for business, she wouldn’t have to increase the tax burden on individuals.”
Ms Sturgeon also reiterated her threat to block plans to hand Holyrood the powers if a “fair deal” over funding cannot be reached with Westminster.
UK and Scottish ministers are currently negotiating by how much Scotland’s block grant from the Treasury should be cut in return for the new tax-raising powers.