
By Claire Cohen, Deputy Women's Editor
7:00AM BST 08 Aug 2015
Comments
Fat. Pig. Dog. Slob. Disgusting animal.
How would you react if someone called you one of these names?
Now imagine that person was hoping to run for President of the United States in 2016 and, presumably, hoping that one or two women were going to vote for them.
Welcome to Donald Trump’s woman problem.
This week, the Republican hopeful took to the stage in the first TV debate of the American presidential race (the Grand Old Party, or GOP, debate).
It was a sea of black suits: ten men willy-waving and vying to be head of the free world. The only woman in the running, former Hewlett Packard chief Carly Fiorina, didn’t qualify for the debate, which only featured the top 10 candidates according to recent national polls.
They were, at least, being quizzed by a woman – Fox News host Megyn Kelly, who confronted Trump over his attitude towards women.
• Which Republicans are running for US president in 2016?
Donald Trump at the centre of the debate stage, among the top 10 Republican nominees  Photo: Getty
“One of the things people love about you is that you speak your mind, don’t use a politician’s filter,” Kelly said to Trump, currently considered the Republican frontrunner.
“But that has its downsides, in particular when it comes to women. You call women you don’t like fat pigs, dogs, slobs, and disgusting animals”.
“Only Rosie O’Donnell,” Trump joked.
“No, it wasn’t,” Kelly hit back. “It was well beyond Rosie O’Donnell. You once told a contestant on ‘The Celebrity Apprentice’ that it ‘would be a pretty picture to see her on her knees.’
“Does that sound to you like the temperament of someone we should elect as President?”
So how did the White House hopeful respond to these accusations of sexism? Err...
“The big problem this country has is being politically correct. I’ve been challenged by so many people, I don’t have time for total political correctness. What I say is fun, it’s kidding, we have a good time.
“Honestly, Megyn, if you don’t like it, I’m sorry. I’ve been very nice to you, even though I don’t have to be given the way you treat me, but I wouldn’t do that.”
Sorry, Donald, but you can’t fight sexism with more sexism. Suggesting that insulting women is a joke, just ain't that funny.
• Republican debate: Donald Trump responds to sexism accusations with more sexism
Nor is it a great idea to go on Twitter and apppear to call Kelly a ‘bimbo’ after the debate debacle.
"@timjcam: @megynkelly @FrankLuntz @realDonaldTrump Fox viewers give low marks to bimbo @MegynKelly will consider other programs!"— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 
  August 7, 2015
"@timjcam: @megynkelly @FrankLuntz @realDonaldTrump Fox viewers give low marks to bimbo @MegynKelly will consider other programs!"
And it's perhaps an even worse one to suggest she was menstruating at the time, as Trump has since done. In a CNN interview, he said:
"You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever."
The attack has prompted widespread criticism, and Trump has now been banned from attending a event held by RedState political website, in Georgia, at which most of his Republican rivals will appear. The organiser Erick Erickson took to Twitter to explain that he'd invited Kelly instead.
It is a shame that a candidate for President confuses political correctness and common decency.— Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) 
  August 8, 2015
It is a shame that a candidate for President confuses political correctness and common decency.
I have invited @MegynKelly to attend tomorrow night’s RedState Gathering event in place of Donald Trump.— Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) 
  August 8, 2015
I have invited @MegynKelly to attend tomorrow night’s RedState Gathering event in place of Donald Trump.
Just to be clear, “weak” and “pathetic” is blaming a tough question on hormones.— Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) 
  August 8, 2015
Just to be clear, “weak” and “pathetic” is blaming a tough question on hormones.
But it’s all in day’s work for the man who once said “If Ivanka weren’t my daughter, perhaps I’d be dating her.”
The billionaire’s roll call of casual misogyny is almost as long as his sweeping faux fringe.
Rosie O’Donnell is, as Trump pointed out, the target for many of his comments. There’s no love lost between them. And, of course, disliking a particular person does not constitute sexism, even if that person happens to be a woman.
But the tycoon’s slurs against woman go much further than this clash of personalities.
Ivanka Trump
Take the 2011 incident, when he called lawyer Elizabeth Beck ‘disgusting’ after she asked to take a break from a deposition to pump breast milk for her three-month old daughter.
Or the time he sent New York Times columnist Gail Collins a copy of her own article, with her picture circled and ‘the face of a dog!’ written across it.
Then there was the aforementioned moment that Playboy playmate Brande Roderick knelt in front of him during a tense Celebrity Apprentice final. After a six second silence (an eternity on TV), during which Trump presumably willed some blood to return to his head – he said “It must be a pretty picture. You dropping to your knees”.
(Because isn’t that woman’s place in the boardroom – on her knees?)
Trump later told another contestant that she’d make “a great wife”.
• Republican debate: Donald Trump rants and raves but his weaknesses are exposed
But, here’s the thing. Despite all this, Trump remains popular with some female voters. (And not just women - the crowd was behind him in the GOP debate).
According to a poll, published two weeks ago by CNN, he’s actually the most popular candidate among GOP women, with support at 26 per cent, compared to 10 per cent for second place candidate Jeb Bush.
It’s been suggested that women see Trump as a ‘family man’, with five children aged nine to 37, and seven grandchildren.
The same poll had Republican Clinton beat Trump, with 28 per cent support from women.

Except, reports this week suggest she’s now losing fans among white women – 10 per cent between June and July - thanks to a series of ‘scandals’ which have tarnished her campaign.
And, as my colleague Sophy Ridge wrote, she’s been rocked by the actions of ballsy senator Elizabeth Warren – who many wish was running – who stood up to the Republic Senate Floor over funding cuts to women’s healthcare.
In the wake of Trump’s sexist slip-ups this week, Clinton might just be breathing a sigh of relief that she’s not the only one likely to have shed a few women voters.
• Elizabeth Warren: The bad ass senator America wishes was running for President
Hillary Clinton and Elizabeth Warren  Photo: Reuters
Thing is, while Clinton seems self-aware, I don’t think Trump genuinely believes he has an image problem and he doesn't seem to care whether he's sexist or not. His comments about Megyn Kelly supposedly having her period surely show that.
He knows he has critics, sure, but his attitude appears to be that the problem lies with them – not him.
Why else would he have hinted, this week, that he’d be happy to have equally toxic political figure Sarah Palin on his administration, were he to win in 2016?
"I'd love that," said Trump when asked about the former vice-Presidential candidate. "Because she really is somebody who knows what's happening and she's a special person”.
Palin and Trump have long had a mutual back-slapping, yee-haawing sort of relationship.
But simply putting a woman on your ticket isn’t enough to win over women, as John McCain found in 2008.
Palin hindered rather than helped his campaign, with many seeing the Alaskan 'Mom-in-Chief' as a token gesture, rather than a serious attempt to tackle the issues they cared about.
And, unlike Clinton (who helped Obama close the gender gap), Palin just didn’t – and doesn’t – have the political experience.
Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin  Photo: AP
Trump needs more than a Mama Grizzly to maintain his popularity with GOP women and win-over the many more he needs to beat a path to the Oval Office.
And, for many female voters, any attempt to whitewash his sexist past and emerge a realistic Presidential prospect will be far too little, too late.
