Return of the 1950s housewife? Young mothers swap careerism for home - Telegraph

By 
											John Bingham, Social Affairs Editor
7:00AM BST 02 Jul 2015
Comments
They might not wear pinnies or pearls but the classic 1950s housewife has made an unlikely return among Britain’s youngest mothers, new research suggests.
A study has concluded that significant numbers of women under 30 with children have turned their back on some of the ideals of feminism, believe a “woman’s place” is in the home and enjoy housework, buying kitchen gadgets and even making cushions.
And contrary to the popular image of a younger, more “progressive” generation, they also emerge as less green or concerned about buying “ethical” products than mothers over 30.
The surprise findings emerge from a study of market research data by Siobhan Freegard, the founder of the website Netmums who recently set up a new YouTube-based parenting site called Channel Mum aimed at the younger generation of mothers.
Drawing on data gathered by the research group Kantar Media, she found that significant numbers of younger women with children appear to be rejecting a “have-it-all” lifestyle involving a successful career, expensive house and family for something more traditional.
Often saddled with debts and unable to get on the property ladder they are nevertheless much more likely to splash money on their own appearance, spending three times as much on clothes as older mothers, she found.
I've been living as a 1960s housewife. Now I'm traumatised
'Housewife capital of Britain' revealed
Women spend half as much time on housework today compared to 1960s
They also emerged as surprisingly house-proud – often obsessively decorating and redecorating their rented homes and posting the results on sites such as Instagram.
Almost a fifth of mothers under 30 surveyed agreed with the statement that a “woman’s place is in the home”, compared with only six per cent of their counterparts over the age of 30.
When asked if they believed in striving for “equality for all” only just over half agreed, compared with almost two thirds of the older group of mothers.
A quarter of the younger mothers said they changed the decorations in their home as often as possible - compared with only one in seven of the older group – while half of them said they were “always looking for new ideas to improve my home”, compared with only four in 10 older mothers.
Siobhan Freegard
“I think personally that young mums now look at my generation, the ‘have-it-all’ generation, and think ‘you lot look knackered, it doesn't look like having it all is that great’,” said Ms Freegard.
“I think we, and our mothers before us, campaigned so hard for equality, campaigned for feminism and campaigned for the right to have a choice and then we got a choice, then we got everything, and then we realised actually we didn't have a choice any more.
“We had to work, we had to leave our babies and go back to work and a lot of us didn't want to.
“In survey after survey, in conversation after conversation I talk to mums who go to work not because they want to, not because they love their career but because they have to.
“So it really was a case of wanting something and realising when you got it that you didn't want it after all.
“A lot of them are actually choosing to stay at home where they can and living on less money.
“They are less likely to own their own houses, as we've seen, but they are still very house proud, they want to make that little home, that little flat they're renting, they want to make it theirs.”