
By 
											Ben Riley-Smith, Political Correspondent
10:00PM BST 08 Aug 2015
He is politics' arch power broker, a modern-day Machiavelli who knows how to work the system better than anyone else.
So goes the caricature of Henry Kissinger, the long-serving US Secretary of State – but the description could just as well apply to George Osborne.
That may explain why Chancellor, often tipped as the real power behind David Cameron’s throne, has picked a lengthy biography of Mr Kissinger to study over the summer.
The revelation comes after The Telegraph approached Westminster’s biggest names to say what books they are reading on their holiday breaks.
The responses range from page-flicking detective dramas and whodunits to detailed analyses of eighteenth-century politics and the British Establishment.
But the choices also reveal something of their readers – none more so than Mr Osborne, the all-powerful Chancellor and favourite to take over from Mr Cameron as Conservative Party leader.
Kissinger Volume 1: The Idealist, by historian Niall Ferguson, is one of two books in Mr Osborne’s suitcase – the other being Not in God's Name, by Jonathan Sacks.
Osborne's other choice Not in God's Name (PA)
Mr Kissinger served as Secretary of State under both Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford but is credited with shaping American foreign policy for decades as an ardent advocate of realpolitik.
Mr Osborne – often said to be one of the most political occupants of Number 11 – shares some of his characteristics, according to the biographer's author, Mr Ferguson.
“Obviously there is a formidable intellect there. I would say Osborne is the smartest person in British politics today,” Mr Ferguson says.
“Both men have had their share of hostility from the Left. That kind of caricaturing and demonising in both cases misrepresents and distorts their historical significance.”
He adds, with a nod to Mr Osborne’s influence: “It was frequently said that Kissinger had a more or less presidential role, especially when Nixon was in the doldrums of Watergate … Make of that what you will.”
While Mr Ferguson’s book challenges the perception of Mr Kissinger as a ruthless diplomat, there is plenty Mr Osborne can learn from over the summer – not least on the renegotiation of Britain’s European Union membership he is reportedly leading. “If the Chancellor wants to think hard about renegotiation … it is not a bad place to start,” Mr Ferguson says.
The picks of other leading politicians are similarly illuminating. Labour leadership contender Andy Burnham’s decision to read Winners: And How They Succeed by Alastair Campbell – a present from his father-in-law – is likely to raise eyebrows. A “tongue in cheek” choice, an aide insists. Critics may see it differently.
Mr Burnham's choice - Winners: And How They Succeed by Alastair Campbell
His leadership rivals’ summer reads are also telling. Liz Kendall’s choice of The Sisters Brothers, by Patrick de Witt – which tells how a pair of feuding brothers ultimately fail to succeed in their jobs – may sound all too familiar to Labour supporters.
Liz Kendall's choice of The Sisters Brothers
Andrew Pettie, The Telegraph’s Arts Editor, sees other similarities. “We all complain that modern politicians never leave 'the Westminster bubble', so it is pleasing to discover that some MPs are getting out and about – even if their means of escape is merely a good book,” he says.
“No grand themes emerge from this list but some of the individual selections are telling – and perhaps consciously so. As with online dating profiles, people like to be seen reading books that say something positive or pertinent about the reader.”
“It is no surprise to see Owen Jones’ The Establishment: and How They Get Away With It on the list of Tory turncoat Douglas Carswell, now Ukip’s only MP. More alarming is the thought of the SNP’s Alex Salmond seizing on Paul Mason’s radical plans for a post-capitalist economy – The Telegraph’s reviewer Liam Halligan described Mason’s PostCapitalism as ‘utopian folly’."
Alex Salmond's choice
There are, however, “two surprises” among the list of choices that Mr Pettie has spotted. “First, that no one is reading any of the novels nominated for this year’s Man Booker Prize,” he says.
“Second, that Nadine Dorries is not reading one of her own. Hopefully her time spent with the impeccably crafted short stories of James Joyce’s Dubliners will improve her prose: The Telegraph’s Christopher Howse, reviewing Dorries’ The Four Streets, said it was the worst novel he’d read in 10 years."
Ms Dorries, as it happens, may not have much time for reading this summer – her fifth novel is being written during the parliamentary break.
There is one clear winner from the list: Alan Johnson, the former home secretary repeatedly urged by Labour rebels to challenge Ed Miliband for leadership – ultimately to no avail.
“Johnson’s award-winning memoir This Boy is given a friendly cross-party plug by Nicky Morgan,” notes Mr Petties.
Nicky Morgan picked Johnson's memoir This Boy
“And, while poor old Andy Burnham wades through 350 pages of Alastair Campbell, Johnson shows his leadership credentials with a copy of Anthony Trollope’s 1876 novel The Prime Minister, presumably wondering what might have been.”
FULL LIST: WHAT MPS ARE READING THIS SUMMER
Andy Burnham, shadow health secretary and Labour leadership contender
Winners: And How They Succeed, Alastair Campbell
Liz Kendall, shadow health minister and Labour leadership contender
The Siege, Arturo Perez Revertez  The Sisters Brothers, Patrick de Witt
Yvette Cooper, shadow home secretary and Labour leadership contender
Partners in Crime, Agatha Christie
Alex Salmond, SNP MP and former Scottish first minister
DM for Murder, Matt Bendoris  PostCapitalism, Paul Mason
Sajid Javid, Business Secretary
The Grass is Singing, Doris Lessing
(Bethany Clarke)
George Osborne, the Chancellor
Not in God's Name, Jonathan Sacks  Kissinger: Volume 1: The Idealist – by Niall Ferguson
Chuka Umunna, shadow business secretary
Personal, Lee Child  The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies, Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee  Flash Boys, Michael Lewis
(Andrew Crowley)
John Bercow, Speaker of the House of Commons
Arsène Wenger: The Biography, Xavier Rivoire  The House Of The Spirits, Isabel Allende  John Bright: Statesman, Orator, Agitator, Bill Cash  Both Flesh And Not, David Foster Wallace
(Jeff Gilbert)
Alan Johnson, Labour MP
A God in Ruins, Kate Atkinson  The Prime Minister, Anthony Trollope  Kilvert's Diaries, Rev. Kilvert
(Geoff Pugh)
Jeremy Hunt, Health Secretary
Cutting for Stone, Abraham Verghese.

Nicky Morgan, Education Secretary
Man-Made, Eva Tutchell and John Edmonds  1 Out Of 10: From Downing Street Vision To Classroom Reality, Peter Hyman  This Boy, Alan Johnson  The Distant Hours, Kate Morton  World Order, Henry Kissinger

Tim Farron, Liberal Democrat leader
The Scrivener by Robin Blake Blowback by Peter May  The Scent of Almonds and Other Stories, Camilla Lackberg

Jacob Reese-Mogg, Tory MP
The English and their History, Robert Tomb  Series of books by PG Wodehouse
(Clara Molden)
Chris Bryant, shadow culture secretary
Villa America, Liza Klaussmann  The Dust That Falls From Dreams, Louis de Bernieres
Michael Dugher, shadow transport secretary
Forgotten Voices of the Second World War, Max Arthur  Agent Zigzag, Ben Macintyre
Mary Creagh, shadow international development
The Yellow Birds, Kevin Powers  Being Mortal: Medicine & What Matters in the End, Atul Gawande  Where the God of Love Hangs Out, Amy Bloom
Douglas Carswell, Ukip’s only MP
The Establishment, Owen Jones  The Evolution of Everything, Matt Ridley  The Buried Giant, Kazuo Ishiguro  Tigers in Red Weather, Lisa Klaussmann
Ian Murray, shadow Scottish secretary
On the Front Line, Marie Colvin  Foreskin's Lament, Shalom Auslander  The Dew Breaker, Edwidge Danticat
Nadine Dorries, Tory MP
Dubliners, James Joyce  Queen's Gambit, Elizabeth Fremantle  Academy Street, Mary Costello
Emma Reynolds, shadow communities secretary
An Event in Autumn, Henning Mankell  A Strange Eventful History: Democratic Socialism in Britain by Edmund Dell