
By 
											Steven Swinford, Deputy Political Editor
12:16PM BST 02 Jul 2015
The SNP has reacted with fury to the government's plans for English votes for English laws, condemning them as "constitutional bilge" and warning that they will help break up the Union.
Chris Grayling the leader of the Commons, said that English MPs will have their voice "recognised in our great Union of nations" for the first time under the plans, adding that the government's plans will "answer the West Lothian question"
Under the plans a committee English MPs will be given a veto on legislation affecting only England before the final stage of legislation.
• David Cameron: English MPs will never be 'overruled' by those in Scotland again • English votes for English laws 'before the summer'
Mr Grayling also announced new plans which will give English MPs the power to block legislation from the House of Lords.

In future amendments from the House of Lords on English issues will have to secure a "double majority" of both MPs from across Britain and English MPs if they are to pass.
MPs will register their votes on iPads, allowing the Speaker of the House to establish if a double majority has been secured.
The plans would limit the ability of Labour and the Liberal Democrats to push through their own agenda in the House of Lords.
However Peter Wilshart, an SNP MP, said that the proposals were "unworkable garbage".
He said: What we are creating is two classes of Members of Parliament which will have a signifcant impact on the ability to look after our constituents.
"With this double majority you're as well to stamp the Scottish MPs foreheads before we go into the lobby. This is the most dramatic and important constitutional statement since the days of Gladstone.
"Never before has there been an assault on the rights of Members of Parliament in this house.
"This lot are doing their best to ensure Scotland becomes an independent nation. This is going to make the whole movement to independence even more irresistable."
Mr Grayling said that his plans will provide a final answer to the West Lothian Question of whether MPs from Scotland should be able to vote on English matters while English MPs cannot vote on devolved powers.
He said: "Today we are answering the West Lothian Question and recognising the voice of England in our great Union of nations. It is a vital next step in ensuring our constitutional is fair and fit for the future."
Chris Grayling the leader of the Commons, said that English MPs will have their voice "recognised in our great Union of nations