By 
											John Bingham, Religious Affairs Editor
6:00AM BST 03 Sep 2015
Publicly identifying with any religion has become an “act of courage” in many western countries because believers are now routinely assumed to be “naive, unsophisticated and narrow minded”, according to Britain's most senior Jewish and Roman Catholic clerics.
The Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis and Cardinal Vincent Nichols warned that it is becoming increasingly difficult to voice arguments based on faith in debates about vital social and political issues such as assisted dying or family values.
They also said the “brazen persecution” of Christian, Muslim and Jewish minorities in the Middle East and other regions was “one of the most pressing and shameful issues of our time”.
The two leaders’ call for greater tolerance and understanding came in a joint article for the Telegraph as they travel to Rome together for a private audience with Pope Francis to discuss faith relations.
Pope Francis is a close friend of the Argentine Rabbi Abraham Skorka, who accompanied him to Israel and Palestine last year  Photo: AFP/GETTY
It comes as Jewish and Catholic communities prepare to mark the 50th anniversary of Nostra Aetate – meaning In Our Time – the landmark declaration by the 2nd Vatican Council, which condemned anti-Semitism and helped transform relations between the two faiths.
“Jewish and Catholic shared history has been so deeply stained with the blood of innocent men, women and children whose only crime was a sincerely held personal religious conviction, that the thought of such a warm relationship as we share today, would have once seemed absurd,” they wrote.
They said that the lessons of the transformation of relations between Judaism and the Catholic Church should now be applied to a “new but no less troubling set of global issues”.
“In many places to be a person of faith can be, in and of itself, an act of courage,” they explained.
“To confess your belief in God no longer commands universal respect for a deep commitment to a lofty ideal, self-discipline and moral conviction.
“In many societies you are more likely to be dismissed as naive, unsophisticated and narrow minded.
“As such, when a view is expressed which is informed by one’s faith on issues such as assisted dying, the value of family life or social responsibility, that view is often treated with scepticism, as though it is somehow less rational or ill-founded.
“And all of this amid the alarming increase in the brazen persecution of Christian, Muslim and Jewish minorities which has become one of the most pressing and shameful issues of our time.
“That is why it is more important than ever for faith communities like ours to cultivate close working relationships.”