http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/47c9c895/sc/33/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cuknews0Cimmigration0C117146850CThe0Ereal0Eland0Eof0Eopportunity0Ewhy0Eit0Eis0Ebest0Eto0Ebe0Ea0Emigrant0Ein0EBritain0Bhtml/story01.htm
The real land of opportunity: why it is best to be a migrant in Britain - Telegraph

By 
											Matthew Holehouse, in Brussels
10:00PM BST 02 Jul 2015
Foreigners are more likely to have jobs in the UK than British workers, according to a major new study that reveals Britain to be one of the most attractive countries in the world for migrants.
According to a report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the employment rate for male workers from overseas has now overtaken that of British natives.
David Cameron has been criticised for his failure to get net migration down below 100,000 despite it being a manifesto pledge five years ago.
Instead, immigration has soared with statistics showing that last year, 318,000 more people moved to Britain than left – a 10-year high.
The new report by the OECD shows that the UK is now one of the leading destinations in the world for foreigners seeking to start a new life.
It shows the proportion of immigrants with degrees has doubled in just six years to nearly a half, the report shows.
And it reveals that the children of poor migrants are far more likely to flourish in a British school than they would in other EU nations such as France or Germany.
The report, drawn from thousands of datasets in the 34-nation club, also shows that the UK now has one of the highest rates of migrants who have started their own businesses in the world.
It also reveals how migrants – historically the first to be laid off in a downturn – have weathered the downturn far better than their counterparts. Men born overseas are now more likely to be in work then those born in the UK..
Between 2006 and 2012 the employment rate for foreign-born men fell slightly from 78 per cent to 77.8 per cent as the economy contracted.
In the same, period the employment rate for men born in the UK fell much more sharply from 79.4 per cent to 76.7 per cent.
The report shows how foreign-born people in Britain are more likely to live in poverty than the UK-born population - a quarter compared to one sixth. A fifth live in over-crowded houses, double the rate for the rest of the population.
David Cameron wants to cut in-work benefits paid to migrants from the European Union in order to curb migration. He believes he can over come fierce opposition from Poland, Romania and Belgium by pointing out how a “brain drain” of the brightest and best is undermining their long-term prospects.
The OECD figures appear to confirm this, and show a dramatic jump in highly-qualified graduates settling in Britain.
Some 48 per cent of migrants now have degrees - compared to 25 per cent in 2006, a figure that remains the EU average.
Only Luxembourg – a tiny state highly dependent on immigration - and Australia, Canada and New Zealand which have strict, points-based immigration laws have a higher rate.
The data also suggests that the children of poor migrants are more likely to succeed at school in Britain than they would in other countries.
David Cameron outsides Number 10 Downing Street
Aged 15, children born abroad lag only marginally behind their equally poor classmates whose parents were born in the UK. Using the PISA system of international testing of literacy, the gap is six points, or 455 to 461.
Only six countries of the 34 have a smaller gap. In France, the gap is 53 points, in Germany it is 52 and in Finland 103.
Working class children who were born in Britain but whose parents were migrants outperform their native counterparts by 19 points. By contrast, the off-spring of migrants in France and Germany do worse than their classmates whose parents were born in the country.
Immigrants are also far more likely to start a business in Britain, with 16 per cent becoming self-employed. Of countries with a significant immigrant population, only Canada has a higher rate.
In the United States the figure is just 11 per cent – despite its proud history of immigrant entrepreneurs that led to its title as the “land of opportunity”. Migrants are significantly likely than native Britons to run their own firm.
Immigrants are also more likely to find work in the public sector. Around 37 per cent of migrants work for the government in Britain – a rate only beaten by Denmark and Sweden, traditionally big-state countries. The figure is likely to be distorted by the high-levels of employment in the NHS.
Critics of the current immigration system said the findings strengthened the case for reform.
Peter Bone, the Tory MP for Wellingborough, said the good life chances offered to migrants shows that Mr Cameron’s welfare reforms will do little to cut overall numbers, a key demand of his constituents. "This report strengthens the case for real immigration control,” he said.