http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/48cd5e91/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0Cconservative0C11790A70A40CThe0ETory0Ecannibals0Eare0Edevouring0EBritish0Epolitics0Bhtml/story01.htm
The Tory cannibals are devouring British politics - Telegraph

By Bruce Anderson
6:24PM BST 07 Aug 2015
Comments
It might seem odd. The Tories only obtained 37 per cent of the vote and a 12-seat majority. Yet they may now be able to seize the central ground of public opinion. There is, of course, one little obstacle: Europe. But assuming that David Cameron achieves an acceptable renegotiation and wins the referendum by a comfortable margin - a reasonable assumption - the European question will no longer bedevil the Tory party. Tories will be able to concentrate on other objectives and in so doing, they could reshape British politics.
Tim Farron: a gift to the Tories.  Photo: GETTY
If they succeeed, they will owe a great deal to their opponents. Gladstone, the Liberals’ greatest leader and virtual founder, was deeply religious. He looked and sounded like a front-rank Old Testament prophet. Tim Farron, their current and worst leader - much the worst - is also religious. He looks and sounds like an itinerant preacher from a backwoods US state: very backwoods. There is no guarantee that the Liberals will survive. So it may be that after coming in with Gladstone and God, they will go out with Farron and God.
As for Labour, has there ever been a duller or more dispiriting leadership campaign? Of the three candidates with a chance, Jeremy Corbyn has an advantage. He knows what he believes and is prepared to say it. Andy Burnham and Yvette Cooper: nothing could be further from conviction politics. They are competing to take the opportunity out of opportunism. So the Tories have a real opportunity, to do what they do well: cannibalism.
Has there ever been a duller or more dispiriting leadership campaign than Labour's current one?  Photo: Agency
In one respect, the Tories’ survival is remarkable, because they often seemed to have put themselves on the wrong side of history. The party of Church and King, their patron saint Charles, King and Martyr, they managed to lose almost every constitutional argument between the 1680s and the 1780s. The Whigs won, which was just as well, for they guided the evolution of the rule of law, constitutional monarchy and modern Parliamentary government. As long as there was a serious Stuart pretender to the Throne, the Tories, very much on the wrong side of history, could be tainted with Jacobitism.
That era passed, and because some of them were ready to welcome the French Revolution, the Whigs were tainted with Jacobinism. Under William Pitt the Younger, the first modern Tory, the party did occupy the central ground and enjoyed a long ascendancy. This ended, because the Tories were unable to deliver Parliamentary reform. The Whigs did, and seemed to have driven the Tories back to the wrong side of history. Peel inspired a rapid recovery, only for Disraeli to wreck it.
A formidable anti-Tory coalition then emerged. Whig aristocrats were joined by Peel’s ablest lieutenants plus the newly enfranchised urban middle classes. Once again, the Tories were banished to the margins. But Disraeli partially compensated for his earlier sabotage and treachery by passing the 1867 Reform Act. The Tories were back on speaking terms with history.
There followed several decades of political cannibalism, during which the Tories ate almost the whole of the Liberal party. Gladstone split his party over Home Rule for Ireland, losing the Whig grandees, who worried about their Irish estates, and also a lot of middle-class voters. Mainland Britain was still a Protestant country, and many Liberal Protestants were not prepared to abandon their Irish co-religionists, fearing that Home Rule would mean Rome rule.
The Liberals further undermined themselves by giving encouragement to the infant Labour party. Within three decades, it had won over most of the Liberal working-class vote. The rise of Labour also encouraged anyone with property or aspirations to seek shelter with the Tories.
After 1945, the Liberals were reduced to a few Celtic fastnesses plus the odd by-election success. They had a problem. In the 19th Century, they had been in favour of widening the franchise, modernising the machinery of government and the free market. Today, none of that provides a unique selling point. The franchise has long since been widened while the Tories have taken over both the free market and administrative reform.

All the Liberals can offer is an appeal to the discontented: the voters whose first response to an electoral contest is “none of the above”. There, however, they are in competition with Ukip, and they have a further problem. In recent decades, even though the average activist was an anoraked obsessive, the party always had enough serious politicians to provide a decent leadership. That is no longer the case. The anoraks have taken over the asylum. Closure threatens.
But there is hardly enough flesh on the Liberals’ emaciated frame to satisfy a hungry Tory. The next target must be Labour. There is one basic reason why Labour is in such a mess. Since 1945, it has been unable to decide whether it is a socialist party or a social reform party. It is clear that socialism is electorally toxic. It is also clear that Mr Corbyn enjoys a lot of support; even if he does not win, the new leader will find it hard to eat him. Nonetheless, the reformers are bound to win, eventually.
“Eventually” could be a long time. Labour might be about to embark on a rolling 10-year programme of electoral futility. But that should not satisfy Tory ambitions. Although the Tories are bound to benefit from the splits and chaos, there could be greater gains. Why should Labour be allowed to claim a monopoly of social reform.
Tories who tried to make a counter-claim used to have a difficulty: Margaret Thatcher. In office, Mrs Thatcher spent like a social democrat. During the Thatcher/Major years, state spending on health went up by 60 per cent in real terms. The cuts never occurred. But he actions were belied by her body language. Although she did not cut, most voters were unconvinced. The slogan “Tory cuts” was as potent as it was untrue.
By 2020, that will no longer be the case. The Tories will have protected and increased health spending. They will have pushed ahead with education reform, while ensuring that welfare is no longer a disincentive to work. Michael Gove might even have reformed the prisons. If they can’t present themselves as the party of sensible social reform, they will be guilty of extraordinary political ineptitude. The social reform wing of the Labour movement must be the next target for Tory electoral cannibals.