The Corbyn hegemony - Telegraph

By 
											Telegraph View
6:25AM BST 07 Aug 2015
Comments
Jeremy Corbyn has won. A month before the Labour Party announces its new leader, Mr Corbyn, the Islington socialist, is the dominant figure in Labour politics. Whether or not he actually becomes its leader, he sets its agenda.Labour is dancing to Mr Corbyn’s tune. This is not just bad for Labour, but bad news for anyone who believes that the British democratic system functions best when the Government of the day faces a credible Opposition.
For evidence of the Corbyn hegemony in Labour circles, consider his principal rival. Andy Burnham owes his career to the election victories of Tony Blair and did Mr Blair’s work with some enthusiasm. He might be expected to denounce Mr Corbyn’s Left-wing dogma for the voter-repelling, growth-killing nonsense that it undoubtedly is. Instead, he apes it.
Mr Burnham has published a “leadership manifesto” that is a tribute to Mr Corbyn. He would nationalise the railways, a proposal that could only appeal to those too young to remember British Rail. He would levy a new tax on graduates, and abolish the system of tuition fees that the Blair government introduced and that he voted for. He opposes Conservative welfare reforms and changes to trade union laws. He would reverse cuts in legal aid. Perhaps most telling of all, he suggests his Labour Party would abandon free trade and oppose the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, a blatant attempt to pander to the economically illiterate Left. The document is not so much a manifesto as a declaration of surrender.
It remains possible that either Mr Burnham or perhaps Yvette Cooper could yet beat Mr Corbyn to the leadership. But then what? The election has proved that many Labour members actually agree with Mr Corbyn. Those people, not to mention Mr Corbyn himself, will have real influence in the party whoever leads it. Labour’s leftward drift now seems irreversible, with all that that implies for its electoral prospects.
Some Conservatives fret about this, fearing that Labour will drag Britain’s wider political debate to the Left and fuel populist doubts about capitalism and free markets. They should worry less, and have more faith in the good sense of the British people to recognise that higher taxes and a bigger state are unfair and inefficient.
The bad news is that Mr Corbyn has won the argument in the Labour Party. The good news is that he will never win it in the country as whole.
Labour's leader, whoever wins