By 
											Simon Johnson, Scottish Political Editor
4:54PM BST 02 Sep 2015
Tony Blair has admitted his government made a "mistake" by failing to do enough to ensure that devolution of powers to Scotland did not undermine the United Kingdom's national identity.
The former Prime Minister insisted that he still believes he was right to create national assemblies in Edinburgh and Cardiff in 1999, arguing that resisting demands for the devolution of power would have stoked up demand for outright independence.
But, in a new book entitled British Labour Leaders, he acknowledged that he did not understand at the time the importance of maintaining cultural unity between the different parts of the UK.
His admission came after a new poll, published almost a year after the referendum, showed for the first time a majority of Scots would support independence if another vote was staged now.
The Ipsos MORI survey for STV found that 53 per cent of people would vote Yes to separation, compared to 44 per cent who wanted to remain part of the UK and three per cent who were undecided.
The poll of 1,002 Scots also predicted an SNP landslide in next May’s Holyrood election, giving the party a larger majority than it won in 2011, and suggested that Scottish Labour would do even worse if Jeremy Corbyn is elected as its UK leader.
Nicola Sturgeon and the actor Alan Cumming during last year's referendum  Photo: Rex Features
Mr Blair admitted in his 2010 memoirs that he was “never a passionate believer” in devolution and he always thought creating a Scottish Parliament was a dangerous path.
He expanded on his regrets in an interview with the editors of the new book, Charles Clarke, a former minister in his Cabinet, and Toby James, a University of East Anglia politics lecturer.
Mr Blair said: "I did feel that we made a mistake on devolution. We should have understood that, when you change the system of government so that more power is devolved, you need to have ways of culturally keeping England, Scotland and Wales very much in sync with each other.
“We needed to work even stronger for a sense of UK national identity. But I don't accept the idea that we should never have done devolution. If we had not devolved power, then there would have been a massive demand for separation – as there was back in the 60s and 70s."
The STV survey is thought to be the first poll to show a majority for independence among all those questioned as previous polls in the run-up to last year’s referendum excluded those who were undecided.
Half of those questioned said they would like to see another referendum within five years while 58 per cent said they would be in favour of having one in the next 10 years.
Almost three-quarters (71 per cent) said they approve of the way Ms Sturgeon is doing her job, compared to only 28 per cent for David Cameron.
But she is under growing pressure from SNP members, tens of thousands of whom joined the party after the referendum, to promise another referendum in the party’s election manifesto.
Derek Mackay, the SNP’s business convener, described the results as “sensational”. He said: “We warned the Tories that support for independence would only grow if they continued to ignore Scotland’s voice – and this poll proves that, as people question Westminster's ability to represent Scotland's interests at all.”
A Scottish Tory spokesman said: “Scotland needs a better way forward, not a step back to yet another referendum."