By 
											Ben Riley-Smith, Political Correspondent
8:14PM BST 02 Sep 2015
A senior Unite activist has said Labour MPs who have opposed Jeremy Corbyn are in their “cross-hairs” and will be ousted from the party after he wins the leadership contest.
The union organiser threatened senior Labour MPs including Tristram Hunt, the shadow education secretary, and Simon Danczuk with deselection in the months after Mr Corbyn’s victory.
The official, who was not named, told Channel Four news that Mr Hunt would “make a wonderful scalp” and Mr Danczuk would be targeted for his “anti-Corbyn statements”.
Other MPs on the list included Vicky Foxcroft, who was only elected as the MP for Lewisham Deptford in May, and Jim Dowd, the MP for Lewisham West.
In a statement, Unite denied the comments reflected its position. A spokesman said the “speculation” had been by a single union member and was “not Unite policy at all”.
It comes amid concerns that Labour MPs who oppose Mr Corbyn’s hard-Left politics could be “purged” if he wins the leadership.
Jeremy Corbyn cuts a smarter appearance at a recent hustings
A spokesperson for Unite said: "A Unite member in London, not a supporter of Labour, has been speculating about the deselection of local Labour MPs.
"This is not Unite policy at all, either in relation to the MPs named or in general, and his remarks have no authority from the union. They are designed to help Labour's opponents and should be entirely disregarded."
His comment sets the scene for a potential early split in the party if the race to succeed Ed Miliband is won by Mr Corbyn, who wants to scrap Trident.
Asked whether he would quit a shadow cabinet led by Mr Corbyn if he was told to vote against Trident renewal in the Commons, Mr Burnham said: "The answer is yes. I couldn't support that position. It is the wrong position for Britain to take, so I wouldn't be able to go out publicly to defend it."
He added: "I believe it would be difficult to serve in a shadow cabinet or cabinet that had taken a different decision.
Labour leadership candidates Yvette Cooper, Jeremy Corbyn, Liz Kendall and Andy Burnham  Photo: Stephen Lock
Mr Umunna, who backed Liz Kendall in the leadership race, did not rule out serving in Mr Corbyn’s cabinet if he wins during an interview on Wednesday.
“It would completely depend on the programme you’re being asked to sign up to,” he told BBC Radio Four’s Today Programme.
Mr Burnham, when asked whether he would quit Mr Cobryn’s shadow cabinet if told to vote against Trident renewal, said: “The answer is yes. I couldn't support that position. It is the wrong position for Britain to take, so I wouldn't be able to go out publicly to defend it."