Police Scotland is to come under further intense scrutiny as two reports into the force's conduct are released.
HM Inspectorate of Constabulary in Scotland (HMICS) will report on call handling after police failed to attend a car crash on the M9 crash in which two people died.
An independent report into the force's stop-and-search practices is also due.
Justice Secretary Michael Matheson is due make a statement on policing to the Scottish Parliament.
His speech will come a week after Sir Stephen House announced he is to stand down early from his post as chief constable of Police Scotland and two days after First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a national review of the force's governance.
Ms Sturgeon admitted the merger of eight regional police forces into a single force in April 2013 had "presented challenges and raised concerns".
Sir Stephen's resignation followed sustained criticism of the force for its use of consensual stop-and-search and armed police on routine patrols.
An independent advisory group, chaired by prominent solicitor advocate John Scott QC, was asked in March to make recommendations on whether new police guidance on stop-and-search went far enough or if the practice should stop altogether. It will report on Thursday.
It is expected to call for a legally-binding code of practice.
Two Police Investigations and Review Commissioner (PIRC) probes are also under way into the death in police custody of Fife man Sheku Bayoh and the failure of officers to respond to reports of a fatal crash on the M9 in Stirlingshire.
The PIRC investigation into the M9 incident is in addition to the HMICS report, which will focus broadly on call handling procedures.
HMICS began its review of all police call-handling in Scotland after the death of Lamara Bell, who was discovered critically ill in a crashed car on the M9, next to her dead partner John Yuill.
They were found by police three days after the crash was reported to them.
Sir Stephen admitted that the information received about the crash on the initial call had not been entered into police systems.
The justice secretary will make a statement on policing on Thursday afternoon, from 2.15pm, which can be watched live or on demand at BBC Scotland's Democracy Live website.
Mr Matheson is expected to announce a new chairman for the Scottish Police Authority, which oversees Scotland's single police force.
Its current chairman Vic Emery is standing down at the end of his three-year term.