
By Ben Riley-Smith, and Christopher Hope
9:00PM BST 03 Jul 2015
Two of Britain’s biggest unions who donate millions to the Labour party are set to endorse far-Left candidate Jeremy Corbyn for Labour leader to "teach the party a lesson" for backing spending cuts.
Senior union sources have told The Telegraph that Unite is expected to back Mr Corbyn when its executive council meets on Sunday, with GMB predicted to do the same.
The move is designed to “nail our colours to the mask” in opposition to austerity cuts and ensure the Labour Party does tack right, one source said.
There is frustration among some senior union figures that many of Labour’s leadership candidates have heavily criticised Ed Miliband’s economic policy.

Mr Corbyn, who only made it onto the ballot with minutes to spare after MPs lent him their votes to broaden the debate, has called for the party to reject austerity.
Unite and the GMB are major Labour supporters. In the first three months of this year alone, Unite donated £3.5million, while the GMB gave £661,000.
Unite’s executive committee meets in private on Sunday to discuss which of the four Labour leadership candidates to formally endorse: Mr Corbyn, Andy Burnham, Liz Kendall or Yvette Cooper.
Mr Burnham had been expected to win their backing, given the support Unite head Len McCluskey, but since the late entry of Mr Corbyn there is a growing belief he is the best choice to send a message to the party.
“Unite and GMB will both elect Corbyn,” a senior union source told The Telegraph. “He represents the kind of Labour values the unions want to support.”
“Are we backing someone who could not possibly win? Yes, we are. But there is a feeling we need to nail our colours to the mask.”
The source added: “He represents anti-austerity, investment in sustainable growth, supporting tackling poverty. That is the way to get the deficit down while improving living standards.”

Another source told The Telegraph: “In terms of outcome the dynamic seems to be in favour of Corbyn.
“If the Unite leadership put its members first, it would not back in a month of Sundays someone designed to keep Labour in opposition for a generation.”
It comes after Mr Corbyn’s clear Left-wing message chimed with union bosses watching the candidate hustings at the Trade Union and Labour Party Liaison Organisation on Tuesday.
The veteran Labour MP has represented Islington North since 1983 and made headlines for his vehement opposition to nuclear weapons and frequent criticism of New Labour.
"They are not offering a clear enough alternative on the economic strategy and austerity, and our attitude to welfare expenditure,” Mr Corbyn said when launching his campaign.
“We think the Left members of the party need to have a chance of a debate.”

Some shadow ministers and former advisers reacted with fury at his inclusion in the race, saying it showed the party was not “serious” about winning the next election.
“If people think Jeremy is genuinely the man to win a parliamentary majority, a leader who can win not just Nuneaton but also Corby and Thurrock, then they are deluding themselves,” wrote Jonathan Reynolds, shadow energy and climate change minister, in a scathing blog.
“If Jeremy was leader the Tories would win a majority of at least a 100, and possibly more,” he added, saying his inclusion in the race could “pervert the centre of gravity even further from where the public are”.
John Mann, a Labour MP, tweeted that the late surge for Mr Corbyn demonstrated the party’s “desire never to win again” while Tom Harris, a former Scottish Labour MP, wrote simply: “Dear David Cameron, you’re welcome. Lots of love, the Labour Party.”