http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/579309/s/47d73d3b/sc/33/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0Cconservative0C117180A960CUniversities0Ewill0Ehave0Eto0Eban0Ehate0Epreachers0Efrom0Ecampus0Bhtml/story01.htm
Universities will have to ban hate preachers from campus - Telegraph

By 
											Tim Ross, Senior Political Correspondent
6:46AM BST 05 Jul 2015
Universities will be forced to vet visiting speakers to stop extremists brainwashing students on campus, under plans being drawn up in the Home Office.
Theresa May, the Home Secretary, is preparing new rules that will require universities to crack down on the activities of their student unions and Islamic societies, amid concerns that undergraduates are at risk of being radicalised by “hate preachers”.
She is preparing to revive a plan that Nick Clegg blocked in the final weeks of the coalition government. The Liberal Democrats vetoed the reform amid fears that requiring college managers to police external speakers would undermine academic freedom and free speech.
However, the Home Office has confirmed that Mrs May intends to bring in the guidelines as soon as possible, now that the Conservatives have a majority in the House of Commons and no longer rely on Lib Dem support.
“We must stop extremist preachers radicalising young people. We all believe in the value of freedom of speech but there is a point at which this leads to radicalisation, which potentially can lead to attacks,” a senior government source said.
The plan will form part of the government’s response to the Tunisia terrorist attack, in which a gunman killed 30 Britons at a beach resort. The so-called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility for the attack.
British forces have been taking part in the international air strikes against Isil in Iraq, and special forces are hunting the group’s most notorious murderer, Mohammed Emwazi, who was nick-named “Jihadi John”.
The issue of student radicalisation rose to the top of the national security agenda after it emerged that Emwazi, who has beheaded American and British hostages, may have been converted to the extremist cause while a student in London.

A senior government source said: “Universities have a duty of care to their students and they have a responsibility, too.
“We have already taken action against hate preachers - Theresa May has excluded more hate preachers than any home secretary.
“But we need to issue that guidance and it is in the interests of universities that they have that guidance.
“There are examples of people who have become radicalised when they were students. In some cases that will have taken place off campus. But if in a university somebody sees a young person exhibiting language or behaviour that suggests radicalisation, they have a duty to do something about that and not just let it pass by.”
Terrorism experts have warned that student union Islamic societies are vulnerable to exploitation by radical speakers who want to brainwash undergraduates to their violent interpretations of Islam.
A new legal duty requires publicly-funded organisations including schools, NHS trusts, nurseries and universities to actively work to prevent vulnerable people from becoming radicalised or converted to terrorist causes.
A draft of statutory Home Office guidance on how institutions should fulfil their new legal duty – known as the Prevent Duty – was published in December. It stipulated that universities must introduce stringent checks on all visiting speakers who are invited to address students on campus, and require student unions to give university authorities at least 14 days’ notice to allow for background checks and cancellation of the event, if necessary.
However, the plans for vetting visiting speakers were blocked the Lib Dems after academics said the measures would interfere with their duty to promote free speech and debate.
A Home Office spokesman said: “The issue of how universities and colleges balance the Prevent duty with the importance of academic freedom is an extremely important one.
“Further guidance for Higher and Further Education institutions on managing external speakers will be published following Parliamentary approval of the specific advice on this matter.
“The duty will commence for universities and colleges once the guidance has been published.”