http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-33772024#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa
What is Jeremy Corbyn's programme for government? - BBC News

Jeremy Corbyn says he wants a "fundamental shift" in economic policy and for Labour to be a "credible alternative" rather than "Tory light". To those who say he wants to take the party back to the 1980s, he has said he'd go back a decade further, to the 1970s Wilson/Callaghan Labour government.
According to his critics, the Islington North MP's vision for Britain is so left-wing it would make the Labour Party unelectable. But what do we know so far about the policies he  would want to bring in if he did win power?
There would be an end to austerity, higher taxes for the rich and protection for people on welfare. The Bank of England would be allowed to print money - People's Quantitative Easing - for "new large scale housing, energy, transport and digital projects". Mr Corbyn says this would create "a million skilled jobs and genuine apprenticeships" with knock-on boosts for the supply chain.
Critics, including Labour's current shadow chancellor Chris Leslie, say this would lead to higher inflation and interest rates, with the poorest households paying the price. Mr Leslie also questions Mr Corbyn's claim that £120bn could be recovered from tax avoidance and evasion. Corporation tax would increase under Mr Corbyn. The government would still aim to reduce the deficit, but at a slower rate and through increased investment and higher taxes rather than spending cuts.
Mr Corbyn has called for a "radically different international policy",  based on "political and not military solutions". In the Middle East, Mr Corbyn says you have to "talk to everybody" to secure peace. He would look to withdraw from Nato and is opposed to air strikes against so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
Mr Corbyn says he supports the UK remaining in the EU, but wants to see "a better Europe". He opposes the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) deal outright.
A National Education Service, following the NHS model, would be established. State-funded academies and free schools would be forced to return to local authority control. Mr Corbyn would look to end public schools' charitable status, although he accepts this would be complicated and may not happen immediately. Tuition fees would be scrapped, at a cost of £10bn.
Rent controls in places like central London would be introduced to help families on benefits to pay their rent. Mr Corbyn has also called for the right-to-buy scheme, which allowed tenants in council and social housing to purchase their homes at a discount, to apply to those living in privately-rented accommodation, although it's not quite clear how that would work.
The UK would not spend 2% of GDP on defence, as pledged by the current government. The Trident nuclear missile system would be scrapped.
The royals would be safe for the time being. Although he is a committed republican, Mr Corbyn told the New Statesman: "It's not the fight I'm going to fight: it's not the fight I'm interested in."
Britain's railway network would be renationalised. He is opposed to the HS2 scheme linking London with the north of England, claiming it would turn northern cities into "dormitories for London businesses".
Energy companies would be renationalised. Mr Corbyn has said he would be "much happier" with a "regulated, publicly run service delivering energy supplies". There would be a moratorium on fracking, which Mr Corbyn has called "dangerous to the environment".
Read more about the Labour leadership contenders: