What if Ken Clarke had become Conservative leader?  - Telegraph

By 
											James Kirkup
12:56PM BST 02 Jul 2015
Comments
Happy birthday, Ken Clarke.
Mr Clarke turns 75 today. At an age when many of would hope to be at home in the garden, playing with the grandchildren, he remains in the House of Commons, where he has been a member since 1970. (By way of context, that’s a year before George Osborne was born.) Assuming he fulfils his intention to serve another full term, he’ll join the vanishingly small group of MPs to spend 50 years in the House.
Longevity is only one of the things that sets Mr Clarke apart from the political herd: affable, contrary and utterly self-assured, he defies the laws of political physics with such insouciance that even those who disagree with him find him hard to dislike and impossible to ignore.
And unlike many of the long-distance MPs, Mr Clarke’s career has been largely spent on the frontbench. He took his first government job in 1972 , and left David Cameron’s government only last year. His CV is the stuff of Westminster folklore: he’s been chancellor, home secretary, lord chancellor, health secretary and education secretary. But not party leader or Prime Minister, despite abiding ambition and several attempts.

His best chance of getting the top Tory job was surely in 2001, when he lost to Iain Duncan Smith; he won the backing of most MPs, but lost among party members. One of the great “What If?” scenarios of British politics is how events would have unfolded had that election gone the other way. Here’s one guess:
A good rule for counterfactuals is to change as little as possible from actual events to begin your alternative timeline. With that in mind, how could Mr Clarke have won in 2001?
In this reality, Mr Clarke lost to IDS, 60 per cent to 40 per cent, because of Europe. He’s much more positive about the EU than most Conservatives, a position he’s never changed, despite the cost to his career. Let’s suppose he had done so in 2003, not least since that’s a smaller change than supposing that the Conservative Party of the time suddenly embraced the pro-EU agenda. So Mr Clarke defeats Mr Duncan Smith and starts his leadership having promised to put his party’s Euroscepticism above his own views. It’s just enough: he wins by 54 per cent to 46 per cent in the final vote among party members.
Far from unifying the party though, the result just formalises the European divide: Mr Duncan Smith declines a place on the front bench and becomes the unofficial leader of anti-Clarke Tories on the backbenches. Mr Clarke, facing Tony Blair one of the most popular prime ministers is modern history, leads a party painfully divided against itself. As ever though, he’s undaunted: his personal affability and some robust performances at PMQs are enough to see him through a bumpy first year as party leader.
Then comes Iraq.
In this reality, Tony Blair won the vote to authorise military action in Iraq with the support of Conservatives under Mr Duncan Smith; only 15 of the 165 Tories then in the Commons opposed the war, including Mr Clarke. (His Commons speech was one of the best of a remarkable debate.) Meanwhile, 139 Labour MPs rebelled.
The significance of Tory support for the war gets too little attention; while the Left is still agonising about the decision to invade, the Right prefers not to think to deeply about it, preferring a history where all blame attaches to Mr Blair, and Mr Blair alone.
What would have happened if Mr Clarke had been leading the Tories in 2003? It seems improbable that he could have compelled all 165 Tories to vote against the government of day on a foreign war, but as Leader of the Opposition in the months before March 2003, he would have been in position to make the case against the war with much more force and prominence, and likely converted many more MPs, on both sides of the House, to his cause.
Faced with the opposition of perhaps 100 Tories, the Liberal Democrats and an even larger Labour rebellion, it’s surely possible that Mr Blair would have been unable to get his motion for war through the Commons; he would also have faced more ministerial resignations that just those of Robin Cook and John Denham – surely Clare Short would have gone, along with several others.

So there would be no British involvement in the 2003 invasion of Iraq. America would go alone, unsupported by its European allies and feeling betrayed by Britain in particular. The Atlantic would get wider, and there would be much talk from the wounded Bush White House that the Special Relationship had been broken. That would torment a Conservative Party already badly split by Mr Clarke’s positions on Europe and then Iraq.
More immediately though, Mr Blair would very likely resign; he suggested as much before the Iraq vote, and in any case, his colleagues would make the decision for him. By the summer of 2003, Mr Clarke would be facing Gordon Brown across the Commons each week at Prime Minister’s Questions.
The toppling of the man who twice inflicted landslide defeats on them would cheer Conservative MPs, and endear Mr Clarke to them somewhat. Postwar chaos in Iraq – quite possibly worse than the disorder that took place in this reality – would also vindicate his decision. Would that be enough for him to survive as Conservative leader until 2005?
The question may be academic. Let’s suppose Mr Clarke did indeed lead the Conservatives into that election. Yes, he’d be facing Mr Brown, not Mr Blair, and would likely have the measure of Mr Brown, cheerily taunting the lumbering Scots PM. But he’d also face a Labour Party untainted by involvement in a disastrous foreign war, with no WMD-inspired trust issues. (Though Mr Brown would surely face a small Blairite insurgency, this Labour Party would still be more united than Mr Clarke’s Tories.) Given the scale of the electoral deficit he would face from 2001, it’s still most likely that Mr Clarke would lose the 2005 election to Mr Brown’s Labour Party. His removal as party leader would be a swift inevitability.
And in the other scenario, where Mr Clarke was ousted before the election just as Mr Duncan Smith was? If so it’s quite likely that he would have been replaced by his old Cambridge University friend and rival, Michael Howard, who also would lead the Conservatives to an honourable defeat at the hands of Mr Brown.
Either path leads to a third election defeat for the Conservatives 2005 and leaves the party looking for a new leader who would seek to become PM in 2010 (or earlier), likely with a better chance of securing a. Whether that would still be David Cameron is a question too far for today. But what is clear is that it would not be Mr Clarke, though he may well have served in a post-Brown Tory government.
Ken Clarke, never a man troubled by doubt, isn’t the type to look back and wonder “what if”. But for the rest of us, it’s worth reflecting that even if Mr Clarke’s best chance of becoming Tory leader had come off, he still wouldn’t have become PM. And who knows? Perhaps he's had a happier life as a result.
