By 
											Telegraph View
6:15AM BST 03 Sep 2015
The police forces of England and Wales are based on a model constructed more than 50 years ago on the recommendations of the royal commission that reported in 1962. The Police Act two years later reduced around 160 borough and city police forces, each overseen by a watch committee, to 43. Nothing much has changed since, other than in Scotland which now has a single force. Yet the country has been transformed in that time.
The police find themselves required to carry out duties and investigations not dreamt of half a century ago. They are subject to oversight and regulation that would have bewildered old-time coppers left pretty much to their own devices. True, there were good reasons for reform: the atomised nature of local policing led to a succession of corruption scandals and the Home Office took the chance to centralise power. The creation of Police and Crime Commissioners was an attempt to localise governance once again.
But with the police facing the chill winds of spending cuts along with the rest of the public sector, the time has come for another detailed look at what they do, why they do it and how they might be better structured. They evidently find it hard adapting to a world in which they need to justify their spending, especially when expected to carry out functions best left to social services or charities. The number of officers has fallen markedly because forces cannot afford to recruit. Soon the total will be back to where it was in the Seventies before the incoming Thatcher government agreed a 45 per cent pay rise.
In recent weeks, there have been shroud-waving stories calculated to alarm the public: in one area the burglaries of only even-numbered houses are investigated; in another, underpowered cars without sirens are too slow to get to crime scenes. Chief officers want to merge constabularies but the Scottish experience of doing so is not a happy one. Specialist umbrella forces like the National Crime Agency have had little impact. The police are both slaves to Whitehall targets and spend too much of their time investigating 50-year-old sex offences. Online crime, which has exploded, could be handled by non-police bodies. These matters deserve more than a gradual erosion of a brand of local, consensual policing that is still admired around the world but risks retreating further from the public it serves. Royal commissions have fallen out of favour in recent years; but more that 50 years after the last, another on policing is due.
