Yvette Cooper should be the next Labour leader - Telegraph

By 
											Dan Hodges
11:45AM BST 02 Jul 2015
Comments
The Labour Party should elect Yvette Cooper as its next leader. And – more importantly – it should be the Blairite, modernising faction within the Labour Party that delivers her victory and is seen to deliver her victory.
Those people hoping that Labour's leadership contest would be the catalyst for a far-reaching debate and analysis why it’s now 10 years since Labour last won a general election have seen their hopes swiftly dashed. As, in fairness, they were always destined to be.
It has become a campaign in which the participants are obliged to think small. Each of the 3 “serious” candidate’s now has only one objective: to cast their net wide enough to secure 50.1 per cent of the votes cast. As a result they are parroting and adopting a mishmash of statements and stances that are collectively incoherent, but might – just might – cobble together the critical mass of support required.
The ritualistic inclusion of Jeremy Corbyn in the contest has been the disaster that many of us predicted. It has served only to embolden the hard-Left, reinforced their sense of political entitlement, and utterly failed to generate the “battle of ideas” that a number of his sponsors were predicting. As one MP who nominated him admitted to me last week, “I wanted Corbyn on the ballot so he’d be crushed. But none of the main candidates are even engaging with him”.
Nor are those candidates even beginning to properly engage with the consequences of May 7. Over the past few weeks Ed Miliband has been portrayed as the Labour leader who constructed the best manifesto since 2001, attracted millions of lost voters back to his party, bravely bore the brickbats of a feral press, and pursued a far-sighted agenda of tackling social injustice, poverty, pay and inequality. Anyone outside the Labour movement following the contest (few people are, which is probably just as well) could have been forgiven for thinking the real solution to his party’s problems would be to stop the campaign altogether and reappoint him.
But the worst part of this leadership election is that what was supposed to be a means of showcasing Labour’s leadership hopefuls is instead diminishing them. Yvette Cooper is strong, intelligent and passionate. Yet she appears to have become terrified of her own shadow. Liz Kendall is brave and imaginative. But as the contest has unfolded it has become increasingly obvious that she does not yet possess the experience or gravitas to be leader of a major British political party, let alone prime minister of her country. Andy Burnham proved both in government and opposition – with his ferocious lobbying for a proper inquiry into the Hillsborough victims and his plans for radical reform of social care – that he is a politician of substance and principle. But over the course of the campaign he has become a self-parody – literally arguing he deserves to be elected because he has a scouse accent. Only Jeremy Corbyn is emerging stronger from the process. And even he has failed to inject any serious, radical energy into the race.
As the contest stumbles forward, two things currently appear destined to happen. The first is that Yvette Cooper and Andy Burnham will bludgeon each other to a standstill, with one of them finally crawling across the finishing line. The second is that there is now a genuine possibility of Jeremy Corbyn leaping over Liz Kendall and securing third place. At which point Labour’s new leader will be effectively dead on arrival. And the post-Miliband Labour era will be dead on arrival as well.
It seems to me there is now only one way for the Labour Party to rescue something from the impending wreckage. And that is – as I say – for Labour’s modernisers and centrists and pragmatists to unite around Yvette Cooper.
Those seeking increasingly complex answers to why Labour has lost the ability to win general elections can call off the search. There is only one reason: New Labour fractured.
Having utterly destroyed the Tory party, the Blairites and Brownites decided the time had come to destroy each other. And they succeeded. The Brownites wrecked the final two years of the Blair premiership. In return the Blairites helped wreck the Brown premiership. And the blood letting that followed allowed Ed Miliband to sneak past all of them and wreck what remained of the Labour Party.
Whole books have been written about the deep ideological and philosophical differences between the two wings of New Labour. And in the minds of the protagonists of that era they may well have existed. But in practical political terms it was impossible to put cigarette paper between their respective agendas.
And they were winning agendas. The minimum wage. The Social Chapter. A windfall levy on the privatised utilities. It was a radical program, it was a bold program, and – most importantly – it was an electorally fireproof program.
There are only three paths now open to he Labour Party. They can embrace the 7/5 conspiracy theorists who believe Labour lost the election because it was insufficiently Left-wing. They can continue with Ed Miliband’s disastrous strategy of burying New Labour for the sake of it, whilst simultaneously refusing to offer any coherent alternative. Or, they can finally stop the self-abasement, put down the faded flags of Blairism and Brownism, and begin the work of constructing the New Labour project afresh.
That project does not have to involve privatising everything, or invading everyone, or genuflecting to every millionaire that walks into the room. But what it must involve is an acceptance of the world as it is, not as the Labour movement would like it to be. And an understanding that where ideology confronts electoral viability, ideology has to be told to take a hike.
Jeremy Corbyn doesn’t want to build a project like that. Andy Burnham can’t build a project like that. It’s too soon for Liz Kendall to build a project like that. Which leaves Yvette Cooper.
Is Yvette Cooper going to set British politics alight? No. Is she going to transform perceptions of the Labour Party overnight? No. Does she pass the Downing Street test? Can you close your eyes and see her standing on the threshold of Number 10? Not at the moment, no.
But Yvette Cooper, with the right sort of support, can still do something that is fundamental if her party is ever going to govern again. She can show that the war is over. She can show that the cataclysmic fracture between the Labour modernisers – a fracture that that has already cost the Labour a decade in power – is finally being repaired.
This has been a wretched leadership contest so far. But if it were to conclude with the old Blairite and Brownite factions laying down their arms and again making common cause then some significant good could still come of it. And for that to happen Yvette Cooper must emerge as the standard bearer for the next round of Labour modernisation.