
A morbidly obese woman has revealed how she lost eight stone in one year - by drinking nine cups of green tea every day.
Mother-of-two Samantha Rees, 30, from Salford, Greater Manchester, tipped the scales at 17st 5lb due to her penchant for greasy takeaways and sugary drinks.
But the single mum says she was given a wake-up call last April when she realised she might not live to see her young children grow up.
By cutting out buttery toast and adding herbal drinks to her diet, Samantha dropped eight dress sizes in 12 months.
Claims assessor Samantha, mother to 14-year-old Caitlin, and Jamie, ten, went from a size 18 to a svelte dress size 10.
Samantha, who stands at 5ft 1in tall, said: 'At my most unhealthy, I would get through cup after cup of milky tea with sugar and I'd always dunk a couple of biscuits in there too.
'People told me green tea is a "superfood" that boosts metabolism and staves off hunger pangs.
'I always thought that was just a myth - but I was so desperate to lose weight I decided it was worth a go.
'I thought it was one of those crazy fads that people get obsessed with - but for me, it really worked.
'Some people swear by eating five portions of fruit and veg a day - for me, it's drinking nine cups of green tea.'
Samantha, who became a mother at just 15, has always struggled with her weight, and believes her expanding waistline only led her to gorge on more fatty and sugary treats.
She said: 'I was a young mum, but it left my body unlike other girls my age. I was around a size 18 and weighed almost 15st by the age of 18.
'I hated my body and couldn't pull off the extra weight because I was so petite. But feeling miserable about the way I looked only made me want to eat more.'
Now Samantha finally has a body she is proud of, and swears the healthy tea is the key to her weight loss.
She said: 'Last April I had been avoiding the scales for some time, but my clothes were becoming so tight I knew I needed to see how big I'd become - and the scales showed almost 18 stone.
'I was shocked and immediately googled my BMI - and discovered that this weight meant I was "morbidly obese".
'I was mortified - I knew I had to change or I might die.'
Samantha completely overhauled her diet and drastically cut the amount of calories she was consuming every day.
Beforehand, Samantha would eat two slices of toast with butter for breakfast followed by a Mars bar mid-morning.
Then she would have two cheese sandwiches with a packet of crisps and another chocolate bar at lunchtime, followed by greasy pizza for dinner.
The mother would also chomp through half a packet of biscuits everyday - washed down with five cups of milky, sugary tea.
But Samantha claims the biggest change happened when she stopped drinking builders' brews - and took up herbal teas instead.
She said: 'I was moaning to a friend about my slow progress and she suggested starting the day with a green tea, as it's rumoured to speed up metabolism.
'At first I laughed it off - I thought drinking green was a fad. Plus, I hated it.
'I've always loved my super-sweet cuppas and the thought of replacing them with anything green made my stomach turn.
'That first cup of green tea tasted so bitter, I had to force it down.'
However, after the first month, Samantha dropped a stone and has never looked back since.
'Obviously I'd been eating well and cutting out my milky teas had probably helped, but my metabolism must have sped up too - and I was certainly snacking less.'
'I was amazed,' she added.
Samantha woke up to a green tea and lemon, and then drank them every hour on the hour until she got home from work - before relaxing in front of the telly with one final cup.
This month - having drunk almost 3,000 green teas since September - Samantha hit her target weight of 9st 4lb - and her BMI has dropped from 46.3 to a healthy 24.8.
She added: 'I look better now than I ever did in my twenties. I can't believe I had to force myself to swallow those green teas at first.
'Now my cups of green tea get me through the day. For me it's not a fad - it's a lifestyle.'
