

"Your child has ADHD."
For most families, that means the beginning of a long trek through the world of pharmaceuticals. Medications are the top treatment for ADHD, and they're effective for 80% of kids with the disorder.
But many parents worry about side effects and want to exhaust every other option before they put their child on medicine.
No matter what your decision is, you can help your child live a calmer, more successful life.

For some, like Sonia, it was a matter of age. "My son was just 5 years old when he was diagnosed with ADHD, and I thought that was too young for medication," she says.
In fact, the American Academy of Pediatrics agrees. They almost always recommend that, before age 6, you start with behavior therapy.
"Parents often ask if they can try other treatments first before they turn to medication, and there are several methods that are effective," says Richard Gallagher, PhD, of the Institute for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity and Behavior Disorders at the NYU Child Study Center. He encourages parents to try other things while they look into the risks and benefits of medications.
Gallagher says that behavior changes alone are most effective with kids who are only inattentive and unfocused, rather than those who are also impulsive and hyperactive. The most successful treatment for ADHD combines both meds and behavior management.
Parents and classroom teachers play a starring role in helping a child learn to recognize and adjust his behavior, Gallagher says.
For parents, this means creating small, manageable goals for their child, such as sitting for 10 minutes at the dinner table, and then giving rewards for achieving them. It's also helpful for the teacher to send home a daily "report card," letting the parents know whether the child met his behavior goals at school that day.
Sonia's son is now 10 years old, and "Ever since he was in kindergarten, I've worked with his teachers to help him modify his own behavior," she says. "He gets graded every 20 minutes on three goals: staying seated, staying on task, and being respectful of others." When he does well, he's rewarded with extra time spent shooting hoops later that day -- which has been far more successful than punishing him for misbehaving.
A coach or tutor can work with older children to come up with a system for keeping track of their books, papers, and assignments, says Edward Hallowell, MD, the author of Delivered from Distraction. "This is more helpful than Mom or Dad trying to help organize, because with a parent, it can come across as nagging," he says.