
Bisexual people have worse health than those of other sexualities, new research suggests.
A new study examining the health of people of different sexual persuasions found those who were bisexual rated their health as worse than gays, lesbians and heterosexuals.
The researchers also found that people who identify themselves as bisexual are disproportionately disadvantaged when it comes to on important social and economic and factors associated with good health and wellbeing.
As part of the study, researchers asked 10,128 sexual minorities (gay, lesbian and bisexual adults) to rate their health.
They also asked 405,145 heterosexual adults to give the same rating, to see how it differed across people of different sexual orientations.
'Existing health research on the sexual minority population is sparse and typically does not make distinctions between the different types of sexual minorities,' said the study's lead author Professor Bridget Gorman, of Rice University, Texas.
'We developed this study both to examine the health of these different sexual minority groups and to assess how risk factors for poor health contribute to their overall health.'
The researchers also quizzed people on factors that impact health, including socio-economic status, education level, employment status and household income.
They then asked about access to health insurance. Smoking and drinking habits, their BMI, their well-being as well as access to social support were also recorded as part of the data collection.
The results showed that 19.5 per cent of bisexual men and 18.5 per cent of bisexual women rated their health as 'poor or fair' - the highest proportion among all the groups surveyed.
In contrast, only 11.9 per cent of men identifying as gay and 10.6 per cent of women identifying as lesbian rated their health as 'poor or fair' - the lowest proportion of those surveyed.
Health was also rated poor by 14.5 per cent of heterosexual men and 15.6 per cent of heterosexual women.
The researchers also discovered that bisexual people were disadvantaged when it came to many other factors that affect health, when compared to people of other sexual orientations.
For example, bisexual men and women were the least likely of the three groups to be educated to university level.
Bisexual women are more likely to suffer mental health problems than lesbians, another study found earlier this year.
The largest British survey of its kind found bisexual women are more likely to feel depressed, self-harm, and develop eating issues.
Bisexual women were 64 per cent more likely to report an eating problem and 37 per cent more likely to have deliberately self-harmed than lesbians, according to the research published in the Journal of Public Health.
They were also 26 per cent more likely to have felt depressed, and 20 per cent more likely to have suffered from anxiety in the previous year than lesbians.
Using data from the 2007 Stonewall UK Women's Health Survey, researchers from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine analysed responses from 5,700 bisexual and lesbian women living in the UK aged 14 or over.
The study found bisexual women were less likely to be 'out' to friends, family and work colleagues and also less likely to be in a relationship.
While they were less likely to experience sexuality-related discrimination from work, healthcare services, education and family than lesbians, they were more likely to suffer problems with friends.

Only 26.5 per cent of bisexual men and 32.1 per cent of bisexual women graduated from university.
This was compared with 55.7 per cent of gay men and 57 per cent of lesbian women, and 37.9 per cent of heterosexual men and 37.5 per cent of heterosexual women.
Bisexual men and women were more likely to smoke (23.8 per cent and 21.9 per cent, respectively).
This was compared with 14.9 per cent of gay men, 16.6 per cent of lesbian women, 11.1 per cent of heterosexual men and 8.3 per cent of heterosexual women.
And of the three groups, they were the most likely to have an annual household income of less than $25,000 (£16,000), with 39.5 per cent of men and 42.1 per cent of women falling into this category
This was compared with 22.9 per cent of gay men, 25.4 per cent of lesbian women, 24.8 per cent of heterosexual men and 29.5 per cent of heterosexual women.
'If bisexuals are minorities within the minority and experience unique and more extreme forms of discrimination, this might contribute to disparities in things like earnings, educational attainment, the propensity to smoke cigarettes and other factors that affect well-being,' said co-author Dr Justin Denney, also of Rice University.
The study has important implications for the study of the health of sexual minorities, he added.

The findings were published in the journal Demography.
