

Most people don't get enough iron from their diets. The nutrient is vital for health, helping our bodies make red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body.
It plays a key role in a range of important bodily functions - a lack of iron can lead to symptoms including fatigue, shortness of breath, pale skin, hair loss and an irregular heartbeat, as well as affecting memory and concentration.
According to EU recommendations, from the age of 11 we're meant to have 14 mg of iron a day. But on average, men get only 11.7 mg and women just 9.6 mg. Meanwhile, nearly half of girls aged 11 to 18 have less than 8 mg a day - the amount they need to avoid deficiency. The problem of a lack of iron is more acute in females because they lose iron with menstruation. But a poor diet can also contribute to a deficiency.
'It's hard to get enough iron with a balanced diet, let alone when women are drastically cutting calories or following faddy diets such as juice fasts or low-carb regimens,' says Sioned Quirke, of the British Dietetic Association. Another factor may be that women tend to eat less meat, which is a good source of iron.
The main sources of the nutrient in the nation's diet are meat, fortified breakfast cereals, bread and vegetables.
But the form of iron in meat (particularly red meat) poultry and fish, known as haem iron, is better absorbed than the iron from plant sources and eggs, known as non-haem iron. 'It's even more important that vegetarians and people who don't eat red meat meet the daily recommended intake of iron by eating a variety of plant sources such as pulses, vegetables and nuts,' says Sioned.
Tucking in to vitamin C-rich foods such as citrus fruits at the same time will also help absorption, as vitamin C boosts non-haem iron uptake.
But avoid drinking tea at mealtimes - the tannins it contains can inhibit the absorption of the key nutrient.
For smart but simple ways to up your iron intake, choose between four and six items from the list below to get the recommended daily requirement of 14 mg.
