
A mother believes her two-year-old son may have been scarred for life by a Tesco plaster she claims 'ripped the flesh' from his face.
Kimberley Ambrose, 25, used one of the supermarket's own-brand plasters to cover a chicken pox scab on her son Jake's face in order to prevent him scratching it and potentially scarring himself.
However, she claims he was left screaming in pain when the plaster also tore off the skin from his face when she removed it.
Ms Ambrose, from Holyhead, North Wales, said: 'I just pulled it off as you would do with any other plaster, but was horrified afterwards.
'It had left a big red raw mark, and you could see exactly where the plaster had been.'
At first she thought it was an allergic reaction and so she and her partner Erik took him straight to Ysbyty Gwynedd A&E.
Medics who examined Jake confirmed it was not an allergic reaction, but that the skin had been pulled off with the plaster.
Ms Ambrose continued: 'The nurse couldn't believe what had happened. We took the plaster along with us and on closer inspection we realised you could see the strands of skin stuck to it.
'The doctor confirmed it wasn't an allergic reaction - it had simply removed lots of skin from his face when it came off.
'It was horrible, it had ripped the skin clean off - I felt awful because I had just pulled it off like I normally would.
'I had only used it as a one-off as well - we had been using Savlon plasters with Jake, but we were going through them like there was no tomorrow, and they were costing us quite a bit, so I thought I'd use Tesco's plasters as they were cheaper, but I won't be doing that again.'
The next day, stay-at-home mother Ms Ambrose went back to Tesco Holyhead, where she had purchased the plasters, to report what had happened.
She also asked for them to be taken off the shelf while the incident was being investigated.
The manager of the store filed a report and gave her a 90p refund for the box of Assorted Waterfilm Plasters - but they were not removed from the shelf.
Since the incident on June 22, Jake's wound has become infected and the toddler has been prescribed a course of antibiotics, and has been unable to attend his pre-school, which Ms Ambrose has had to pay for.
Ms Ambrose, who is also mother to Callum, six, said: 'The top is healing but the bottom still won't stop bleeding and has now become infected - it looks like it's going to scar.
'I don't want any other families to go through what we have gone through.
'I'm annoyed that the plasters are still sat on the shelf, they should be removed to prevent this happening again.
'I always chose Tesco because it had the biggest range of chemist products, but I won't be shopping there again - they have lost my trust.'
A Tesco spokesperson said: 'All our plasters are CE marked and undergo rigorous independently verified checks to ensure they are safe to use for both adults and children.
'We would like to assure customers that we have had no other complaints of this nature for the product and we are urgently investigating this with our supplier.
'We appreciate this is a distressing situation for Ms Ambrose and we'll continue to keep her closely updated on our investigation.'
