Brain Scans Show Why Reading to Kids Is Good for Them – WebMD


By Amy Norton
HealthDay Reporter

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 5, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Brain scans reveal that preschoolers whose parents read to them regularly show more activity in key areas of their brains.
Reading to young children is well known to have benefits, including better language skills. And experts already urge parents to have a regular story time with their kids, starting at birth. It's been assumed that the habit feeds youngsters' brain development.
But the new findings, published online Aug. 3 in the journal Pediatrics, offer hard evidence of that theory.
"It's often said that reading builds brains," said study leader Dr. John Hutton, of Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. "That seems obvious, but you want to show that it's actually true."
So Hutton's team used functional MRI scans to measure real-time brain activity in 19 children, aged 3 to 5 years, as they listened to stories and to sounds other than speech.
Parents were interviewed about "cognitive stimulation" at home, including how often they read to their children. Based on their responses, the number ranged from two nights a week to every night.
Overall, Hutton's team found, the more often children had story time at home, the more brain activity they showed while listening to stories in the research lab.
The difference was seen in a brain region involved in so-called semantic processing -- the ability to extract meaning from words. There was "particularly robust" activity, the researchers said, in areas where mental images are formed from what is heard.
Hutton said that finding is especially intriguing, because reading to children is assumed to spark their imaginations.
"When children listen to stories, they have to put it all together in their mind's eye," Hutton explained.
Even though children's books have pictures, he added, that's different from watching all the action play out on a TV or computer screen.
Brandon Korman, chief of neuropsychology at Nicklaus Children's Hospital, in Miami, agreed.
When a child is listening to a story, rather than sitting passively in front of a screen, the brain is in a "more active" state, said Korman, who was not involved in the research.