
Doctors have launched a new treatment which they claim can make people ‘scientifically beautiful’.
The treatment – called Facial Profiling – uses computer software which analyses the proportions of the face.
Then, centuries-old principals of ‘geometric ratios’, which have come to define beauty, are applied to the entire face, rather than simply focusing on one area, like the lips or cheeks.
An aesthetic surgeon then carries out various non-surgical procedures, such as dermal fillers, to make the face more symmetrical and proportionate,  allegedly improving the person’s appearance.
Dr Tim Pearce, an aesthetic specialist and founder of Manchester’s SkinViva clinic, claims the technique is the first of its kind in the UK.
‘We’re performing an “artistic restoration” on someone’s face - it’s not just about giving them Botox or dermal fillers,’ Dr Pearce said.
‘A client can come in and say they’ve got frown lines and want to look better for their age.
‘Yes, you can solve the wrinkles, but there’s a whole lot of other ways to improve someone’s look, providing you’re skilled at analysing a face and performing the right treatment.
‘With cosmetic work, it’s either unnoticeable and good, or noticeable and unnatural.
‘If a client looks “done”, you’ve probably broken a geometric rule of proportion and detail.
Dr Pearce uses a computer program called Anaface, created by US firm Atama Group, to analyse his clients' faces.
He uploads photos of them to the software, which uses computer algorithms based on neo classical ideas of beauty.
While the ratios themselves aren't revealed, Anaface says it 'takes 17 data points and performs hundreds of complex geometric calculations to determine in numbers what the human eye perceives automatically.'
It then presents the exact proportions of the face - ratio of the nose width to the face width and the length of the face to the length of the nose - allowing Dr Pearce to spot improvements that could be made.
Then, he suggests the non-invasive surgical work that could be done to put the face into proportion.
Facial profiling has been launched by Dr Tim Pearce, founder of Manchester’s SkinViva clinic.
He uses computer software which analyses the proportions of the face.
The software  is called 'Anaface', and is made by US firm Atama Group.
It allows Dr Pearce to upload of clients, which is then analysed using computer algorithms based on 'neo classical' ideas of beauty.
While the ratios themselves aren't revealed, Anaface says it 'takes 17 data points and performs hundreds of complex geometric calculations to determine in numbers what the human eye perceives automatically.'
It then presents the exact proportions of the face - ratio of the nose width to the face width and the length of the face to the length of the nose.
A vritual map of the face with improvements to make it more symmetrical is then created.
Then, Dr Pearce recommends which non-invasive treatments - such as dermal fillers - could be carried out to make the face more proportionate and attractive.

Dr Pearce continued: ‘These are ideal ratios, normally decided by artists, of what the ideal shape, size, and proportions are to be beautiful.
‘And our facial profiling is about bringing as many features into harmony as possible.
‘It’s about doing little adjustments in a lot of places, looking at the whole face in context, and matching that to a deeper, underlying aim.
'Someone I consistently refer to is the Egyptian queen Nefertiti.
'She was celebrated for her beauty 3,000 years ago and she still is today.'
The cost of the treatment depends on the specific procedures, for example dermal fillers or Botox, that need to be carried out.
A recent case cost £4,500 as it required 12 syringes of filler to make put one client’s face in proportion.
After he has carried out the non-surgical treatments, Dr Pearce also uses old-fashioned calipers to measure distances between certain aspects of a person's face in order to make sure everything is in proportion.

'It’s not about enhanced, over treated big cheeks and big lips. It’s about something that never grows old.
'For example, to create harmony in a face we can make a nose look smaller by making the chin look smaller also.
'Most people won’t notice you have had a treatment or look any different as all adjustments are subtle.
'They will just think that you look better, more attractive, even more approachable.'
One such geometric rule is known as the ‘Golden Ratio’, often quantified as the number 1.618, Dr Pearce claims.
It’s a ratio that appears again and again in nature, appearing to grow organically, and marks the proportion of a person’s hand to their forearm as well as the distance between a person’s three knuckles on each finger, he said.
And it’s thought Michelangelo even used the ratio while painting the ceiling of Vatican City’s Sistine Chapel in the early 1500s.
Emily Adair, 30, recently underwent facial profile reshaping at SkinViva after growing acutely aware of two bumps on her nose.
She paid £999 to have dermal filler injections, while Dr Pearce also enlarged her top lip and chin.
Miss Adair, a performing artist, said she was too terrified to have invasive and expensive surgical rhinoplasty (more commonly known as a nose job).
She says she cried after looking in the mirror for the first time following treatment, as she finally shook off years of self-confidence issues.
The dancer and actress, whose style icons are 1950s pin-ups like Audrey Hepburn and Liz Taylor, said: ‘I had no idea of how effective the work would be, so when he held the mirror up to me I just couldn’t believe it. There were tears - I filled up.
‘And it made me realise just how long I’ve carried this weight around with me, having been self-conscious about my nose since I was 14.
‘I’d lived with it every day for so long, and then it was gone in a matter of minutes. The experience was overwhelming.
‘That’s why I think people need to know that his non-surgical treatment is an option.
‘For me, it’s changed everything. I used to have my fringe cut so that my hair always fell down over one eye, while also covering the top of my nose.
‘I’d had this fringe for ten years - it was like my security blanket. But now it’s gone, and I’m proud to wear my hair up.’
Miss Adair also says her treatment sticks two fingers up to those who taunted her.
She recalls: ‘I was in my early twenties, and I’d been for a night out in Manchester. Walking home from a club, I passed a guy who said “She’s beautiful. What a stunning girl”.
‘I turned round to look at him, and then he suddenly said, “but bloody hell, what’s wrong with her nose!?”
‘I just remember feeling so low - how cruel that we live in such an image conscious world.’
More and more people in the UK are having non-surgical cosmetic treatments, such as injections of Botox and dermal fillers.
A survey earlier this year found there were 620,077 such treatments in 2014, up from 2010’s figure of 479,091.
Commenting on Miss Adair’s treatment, Dr Pearce added: 'With Emily, her main concern was her nose.
‘But through conversation it became apparent that, like most of us, she just wanted to feel more attractive overall, especially when she saw her side profile in the mirror.
‘So my priority was to improve her nose by lifting the tip and softening the bump. I also blended the little shadow in the middle of her nose caused by the bone underneath.
‘Then to help highlight her natural beauty by balancing out her nose with the rest of her side profile, I put a very small amount of filler in her top lip to help shape the white and pink part of her lip and to highlight the cupids bow.
‘I also put a little in her chin which again helped to ensure the nose was in proportion. By making these few small changes she looks and feels more attractive but still looks like herself.'



