

By Amy Norton
HealthDay Reporter

MONDAY, June 29, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- People who enjoy a glass of orange juice or some fresh grapefruit in the morning may face a slightly increased risk of melanoma -- the least common but most deadly form of skin cancer.
That's the finding from a study of more than 100,000 U.S. adults followed for about 25 years. Researchers discovered that those who regularly consumed orange juice or whole grapefruit had a higher risk of developing melanoma, compared to people who avoided those foods.
Experts were quick to stress that the findings, reported online June 29 in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, do not prove that citrus foods help cause skin cancer.
It is plausible, however, that certain compounds in citrus explain the association, said senior researcher Dr. Abrar Qureshi, chair of dermatology at Brown University and a dermatologist at Rhode Island Hospital, in Providence.
Citrus foods contain particular "photoactive" chemicals -- namely, psoralens and furocoumarins -- that are known to make the skin more sensitive to the sun when they're applied topically, Qureshi said.
"You'll see children get a sunburn in spots where a citrus popsicle dripped down the chin, for example," Qureshi explained.
But even if citrus foods potentially make some people susceptible to sunburn, it's not orange juice that should be avoided, Qureshi said.
"The citrus can't hurt you without the excessive sun exposure," he pointed out.
So the message remains the same, Qureshi said: Protect your skin from soaking up too many rays by staying in the shade, using sunblock and wearing a hat.
That advice was echoed by Marianne Berwick, a skin cancer researcher who wrote an editorial published with the study.
"I don't think the general public should make any changes based on this study," said Berwick, a professor of dermatology at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. "You should still have a wide variety of fruits and vegetables in your diet."
For the study, the researchers analyzed data from two long-running studies of U.S. health professionals. Every couple of years, the participants answered detailed surveys on their health and lifestyle.