

The sun's out, and so are our feet, which tends to mean hard skin on your heels. The average pedicure doesn't do much, and treatments such as Footner socks can cost £20 a pop. Which might explain why the internet is full of home remedies claiming to do the trick. With the help of Dr Tariq Khan, consultant podiatrist at London's Wilbraham Place Practice, CLAIRE COLEMAN looks at the science behind some of the most popular tips...
VINEGAR AND MOUTHWASH
Remedy: Mix one part vinegar with one part mouthwash and two parts warm water, then soak feet for ten minutes. While the mouthwash offers a fresh fragrance, and potentially a small amount of antibacterial action, it's really the vinegar doing the work.
'Conventional footcare products such as corn plasters often contain acids - such as salicylic acid - that work as keratolytic agents [ingredients that soften and remove hard skin],' explains Dr Khan.
'And as vinegar is predominantly acetic acid, it will have a similar but weaker effect.'
Like many of the remedies we found, this only tackles part of the problem.
'To really get rid of hard skin, you need to soak it to soften it, remove it, and then moisturise. While vinegar might start to break down the skin, it will probably need a scrub to remove it altogether.'
Verdict: Feet will be left minty fresh, but you'll need to scrub to get rid of hard skin, and then moisturise. 3/5
GLYCERIN
Remedy: Mix a generous amount of glycerin with water, massage into feet and then put on a pair of thin oversized cotton socks and leave overnight.
Glycerin is frequently found in moisturisers so you can see why people would think it would soften skin. The problem is that while glycerin is a humectant - i.e. it draws water from the lower levels of the skin - it needs to be combined with an emollient, which will trap the water in the upper layers of the skin. Otherwise, this moisture can simply escape.
'Glycerin definitely has the potential to be part of the solution but on its own this is only going to have a very weak cosmetic effect,' says Dr Khan.
'When you think about the amount of hard skin that builds up daily as a result of pressure and friction on your feet, you'd need to apply it far more regularly than is practical, and you'd need to use it with an emollient that would lock in moisture.'
Verdict: Once you've softened and removed skin, a moisturiser containing glycerin would be a better option. 2/5
VICKS VAPORUB
Remedy: Before going to bed, apply a thick layer of Vicks to your feet. Massage in for five minutes and then put on cotton socks. Wash feet with warm water the following morning.
Vicks contains camphor, eucalyptus and menthol in a turpentine oil base. 'This type of ointment is very emollient so will trap in any moisture, while the menthol and eucalyptus will be cooling,' explains Dr Khan.
And while there's no evidence that it's particularly good for hard skin, some podiatrists do regularly use Vicks on feet.
'Around seven years ago someone found Vicks was effective at tackling fungal nail infections, which are notoriously difficult to clear up. We're not exactly sure why, but the theory is that it contains an ingredient that works on types of fungi that cause these infections,' says Dr Khan.
Verdict: One of the best moisturisers around for trapping in water, but you'll need to remove the hard skin first. 4/5
OLIVE OIL
Solution: Massage olive oil into feet, concentrating particularly on any areas of hard skin.
'When it comes to moisturising, oils are better than creams, but not as good as ointments, which are thicker, greasier, penetrate further and tend to maintain moisture levels for longer,' says Dr Khan. 'So while you will get some moisturising from olive oil, it won't be as effective as ointment - and there are no ingredients in olive oil that will, for example, help mend cracked skin.'
Verdict: Not as good at moisturising as Vicks or Vaseline. 2/5
BLEACH
Remedy: Soak feet in one part bleach to ten parts water to soften and remove hard skin.
If you've ever got bleach on your skin and felt that peeled feeling, you could be convinced this is a good idea. And, as Dr Khan points out, bleach is used to treat certain skin conditions.
'Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) simplex is an inherited disease which causes blistering and can lead to hard skin on the feet,' he says. 'Bleach soaks are sometimes used to treat EB as it's thought that, as with an acid, bleach, which is strongly alkaline, attacks the proteins that hold the hard skin in place, breaking it down.'
However, he warns against trying this at home. 'The bleach used in hospitals is a very special type of medical bleach used at controlled concentrations.'
Verdict: There's a very real possibility you'll give yourself chemical burns - or an irritant reaction at least. 0/5
BANANAS
Remedy: Some advocate rubbing your feet with the inside of a banana skin, while others say you should make a foot mask out of a couple of mashed bananas.
It might sound unlikely but according to Dr Khan, who researched wart treatments for his PhD, there is some evidence that banana skin can be effective when it comes to tackling warts.
'I believe one of the podiatry schools had investigated it and concluded that banana skins contain an enzyme that breaks down the skin overgrowth that causes a wart, so it's possible that this could work,' he says.
'However, when used as a wart treatment, your skin gets cut, then the banana skin is applied as a compress. I'm not sure just rubbing your feet with a banana skin would work.'
Verdict: It would be difficult for the banana to be in contact with the skin for long enough to make a difference. And you certainly shouldn't be taking a scalpel to your own feet.
1/5
TURMERIC AND OIL
Remedy: Mix a few drops of neem oil with a teaspoon of turmeric and mix until you have a paste to apply as a foot mask.
Neem and turmeric have been used in Ayurvedic medicine - a traditional type of Indian medicine - for hundreds of years. The active ingredient in turmeric is also used in some Western treatments.
'Turmeric contains compounds called curcuminoids which have been shown to act as anti-inflammatories and are used to treat arthritis,' says Dr Khan.
'Neem oil is traditionally used for moisturising and while it has no active ingredients that will break down hard skin, it should have some emollient value.'
Verdict: When turmeric is used as an anti-inflammatory, it's not just applied to the surface of the skin, but ingested, and while the oil offers a bit of moisturisation, there are better options. 1/5
MILK AND HONEY
Remedy: Mix one part honey with two parts milk and soak feet for 15 to 20 minutes before massaging the mixture into the feet, concentrating on any areas of hard skin. Rinse with warm water.
'Milk contains lactic acid, but in this form it's a very weak form of acid so I'm not sure how effective it would be at breaking down hard skin,' says Dr Khan.
'Honey has been used for wound healing for years, and is known to be a humectant, so would draw water to the surface of the skin, but again would need to be used with an emollient to be effective.'
Verdict: The milk isn't really doing much and while the honey also has antiseptic properties, it needs to be combined with an emollient to trap moisture in. 2/5
VASELINE
Remedy: Apply a layer of Vaseline to the feet at night, put on a pair of cotton socks and rinse feet in warm, soapy water the following morning.
This sort of occlusive approach - where a moisturising ingredient is held against the skin for several hours - can be a useful way of keeping moisture in the skin, especially when you're using an ointment, such as Vaseline.
'Even though Vaseline doesn't contain any active ingredients, its formulation makes it one of the most effective ways you can moisturise,' says Dr Khan.
Verdict: Best to use it as the final stage after removing the hard skin and applying a humectant moisturiser that will draw water to the surface of the skin. 4/5
