http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3187433/New-era-war-cancer-delayed-NHS-red-tape-Groundbreaking-treatment-extend-lives-thousands-won-t-available-year.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Cancer treatment is delayed for a year by NHS red tape | Daily Mail Online

A new era in the war on cancer is being delayed by NHS red tape, experts have warned.
A revolutionary treatment which could extend the lives of thousands of patients is today launched in the UK for the first time.
European regulators have granted a medical licence for nivolumab, a groundbreaking lung cancer drug which is twice as effective as chemotherapy and carries far fewer side effects.
But NHS patients will be denied access to the drug for at least a year - and maybe far longer - as bureaucrats puzzle over how to pay for it.
Experts last night called for a complete overhaul to the way cancer drugs are funded on the NHS.
It takes many months for the NHS to assess each drug, and the Cancer Drugs Fund – which was set up to pay for treatments not routinely available on the NHS – is currently closed to new drugs.
Professor Paul Workman, chief executive of the Institute of Cancer Research, said: ‘There is a systematic problem at the heart of all this.
‘The system is at breaking point and we need to look at the entire ecosystem as a whole and come up with new approaches to unblock the pipeline.
‘This will only get worse as fantastic cancer research science offers increasing opportunities for highly innovative and effective new drugs.
‘Having these individual battles on each drug is wasting a huge amount of everyone’s time.’
Campaigners say poor access to cutting-edge treatments is one of the reasons cancer survival rates in this country continue to lag behind other rich nations.
There are 44,000 new cases of lung cancer in Britain each year, 6,000 of which have nothing to do with smoking.
It is the country’s second-most common cancer, but survival rates in England are way behind those of Norway, Australia, Sweden and Canada.
Nivolumab is licensed for an advanced form of the disease called squamous non-small cell lung cancer, which affects a third of all lung cancer patients.
In trials, 42 per cent of severely ill lung cancer patients survived for a year if they were on nivolumab.
Only 24 per cent of patients survived for the same period on chemotherapy.
Many patients survived for much longer - and in some cases their tumours started to shrink.
The drug is one of the first of a new wave of treatments called immunotherapy, which harnesses the body’s own immune system and teaches it to attack tumours.
Scientists are incredibly excited about the advance, which they describe as the biggest step forward since chemotherapy.
But the drugs are expensive.
Experts are concerned that the NHS is simply not set up to pay for the best new breakthrough treatments, and patients will suffer as a result.
Nivolumab costs £5,700 a month, and is taken via a drip twice every fortnight.
It is licensed for use after one round of chemotherapy, which means an estimated 4,000 patients might benefit each year.
But it might become available for far more people as its manufacturer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, has applied for further licences for use at different stages of the disease, as well as for skin cancer.
For the moment, however, no NHS patients are able to access the drug, despite the European Medicines Agency’s ruling that it is safe and effective.
The Cancer Drugs Fund, the £336 million-a-year pot set up in 2011 specifically to pay for expensive, cutting-edge cancer treatments, is currently closed to new applications.
And NHS rationing watchdog Nice - the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence - is not due to decide on the drug until May 2016 at the very earliest, with a three-month delay expected between the date of a decision and the drug being made available to patients.
It means that even if the application passes smoothly through the Nice process, patients will not see it until next August at the earliest.
But campaigners are not hopeful that Nice will even approve the drug for funding, as the body has tended to reject the latest treatments on grounds of cost.
Paula Chadwick, chief executive of Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation, said that many patients are likely to die waiting for the drug.
‘This is a significant development for this very specific group of people with lung cancer and offers hope where there was very little before,’ she said.
‘But although there is a really positive story here, there is also a mess that needs to be sorted out.
‘The pharmaceutical companies want their price and the NHS had its processes, but it’s the patients here who are getting caught in the crossfire.
‘These patients don’t have time to waste. We should hang our heads in shame.’
Professor Workman added: ‘I also worry about the cost of all new cancer drugs which is clearly too high as to be unaffordable.
‘The companies have a role in this – they need to find a cost which we can afford.’
Dr Sanjay Popat, a lung cancer expert at The Royal Marsden cancer hospital in London, said: ‘Many patients at advanced stages of this disease are unable to tolerate the side effects of chemotherapy and some patients will choose to discontinue treatment.
‘The launch of nivolumab is a milestone that changes the treatment landscape from one where existing treatment options have offered modest improvements in survival, to one where lung cancer patients have an additional option which can significantly extend survival.’
Dr Tom Newsom-Davis, consultant at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, added: ‘This is a step-change in the way we treat lung cancer.
‘Immunotherapy offers a paradigm shift for this group of patients with advanced disease.
'It is more effective and has fewer side effects than chemotherapy.’
Sir Andrew Dillon, Nice chief executive, said: ‘Nice started to appraise nivolumab well before it received its recent licence.
‘We will recommend it provided the manufacturer prices it in a way that properly reflects the additional benefits it brings to patients.
‘What we can’t do is advise the NHS to use a new medicine that will require it to transfer so much of its resources from other services that the overall benefit to patients using the NHS is unreasonably compromised.’
Johanna Mercier, general manager at Bristol-Myers Squibb, said: ‘The next step will be to ensure that eligible patients in the UK are able to benefit from nivolumab as soon as possible and we are totally committed to continued collaboration with the reimbursement authorities to achieve this.’
Sir Bruce Keogh, medical director for NHS England, said: ‘It’s right that independent medical experts at Nice should properly review whether new drugs are appropriate, and whether drug companies are pricing them fairly.
‘We want to speed up that process, and are bringing together patient charities, Nice, the pharmaceutical industry, the medicines regulator and the Department of Health to develop a speedy system to get the most promising drugs to NHS patients as quickly as possible.’
A Department of Health spokesman said: ‘We are taking ground-breaking steps to speed up access to innovative drugs – the £1 billion Cancer Drugs Fund has already helped over 72,000 people and our accelerated access review is looking at how patients get new medicines and technology even faster.
‘That has to be based on the best clinical evidence, because we don’t want to return to the days when drugs weren’t appraised independently.
‘More broadly, cancer survival rates are at a record high and the NHS is seeing more patients than ever before.’


