Cancer survival rates in England see more patients dying than any Western country | Daily Mail Online

Cancer survival rates in England lag well behind others in the West despite millions being spent on diagnosis and treatment, researchers warn.
Patients are more likely to die from six of the most common types of the illness than those in Australia, Canada, Sweden and Norway.
In some cases, survival rates are a quarter lower than the best performing countries.
But they are improving and, for breast cancer in particular, there are signs that England is catching up. Nonetheless, the researchers say it will take years before government strategies to offer patients the best scans, drugs and surgical procedures take effect.
The study, conducted by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, looked at survival rates for six types of cancer in England, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway and Sweden.
With the exception of Denmark, England's figures are the worst for all types. The gap is especially stark for lung cancer: five-year survival rates in England are 12.7 per cent, compared with 17.3 per cent in Canada.
Only 20.7 per cent of patients diagnosed with stomach cancer in England can expect to survive five years, a quarter lower than the 27.9 per cent rate in Australia.
The figures also show England lagging more than a decade behind: for ovarian cancer, the five-year survival rate is 35.2 per cent – lower than that achieved by the other nations except Denmark in 1999.
The research, published in the British Journal of Cancer, found that five-year survival rates for breast cancer in England rose from 81.1 per cent in 2004 to 84 per cent in 2009. But they remain significantly behind the 86.2 per cent of both Australia and Sweden.
Experts say England's lower survival rates may be attributed to patients being unaware of symptoms and to misdiagnosis by GPs. Patients may also not have been offered the most effective forms of surgery or the latest drugs.
Sara Hiom, director of early diagnosis at Cancer Research UK, which funded the study, said: 'Not only is England struggling to excel on an international level – there's also too much variation across the country in the speed with which patients are diagnosed and whether they can get the treatments they need.'
The Government announced last month that £400million would be set aside for a drive to provide world class cancer care. A Department of Health spokesman said: 'Strong progress is being made – with cancer survival rates at a record high as the NHS sees and treats more cancer patients than ever before.'
