

By Tara Haelle
HealthDay Reporter

THURSDAY, July 2, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Children with autism spectrum disorders appear to respond to stinky smells differently from children without autism, a new study found.
The difference was pronounced enough that researchers could tell who had autism and who didn't about 80 percent of the time based only on "sniff responses."
"The authors have hit upon a novel way of testing differences between children with autism and those without that indeed seems to suggest marked differences in how autistic children process odors," said Dr. Glen Elliott, chief psychiatrist and medical director of Children's Health Council in Palo Alto, Calif.
"Since we know that many children with autism are hypersensitive to touch, sound, taste and visual stimuli, it is especially interesting that they seem not to be responsive to odor in the same fashion," said Elliott, who was not part of the research.
The study may hold clues to the social difficulties children with autism have, the authors suggest.
"The sense of smell is in fact a major component of human social interaction," said lead author Liron Rozenkrantz, a Ph.D. student at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel. "Given that olfaction is probably altered in autism, could it be that this is a part of the social challenge in autism?"
Results of the study appear in the July 2 issue of the journal Current Biology.
The researchers compared 18 children with autism spectrum disorders to 18 typically developing children. All of the children sniffed pleasant and unpleasant odors while watching cartoons. They were exposed 10 times to pleasant smells, such as rose or shampoo scents. They were also exposed 10 times to unpleasant odors, such as sour milk or rotten fish.
The researchers measured each child's "sniff response." This included how much they sniffed, their highest rate of breathing in, their average rate of breathing in and how long they sniffed.
The children without autism changed the way they sniffed the bad odors within 0.3 of a second, the researchers found. They very quickly took smaller sniffs of the bad smells and larger sniffs of the sweet smells. The children with autism, however, continued sniffing without any changes, the study revealed.