http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3146044/Cholesterol-lowering-drugs-statins-make-women-angrier-men-calmer.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Cholesterol lowering drugs statins make women angrier - but men calmer | Daily Mail Online


Statins, the cholesterol-lowering drugs taken by millions of people, can increase aggression in women, scientists claim.
The drugs by contrast tended to lower aggression in men, according to the study of 1,000 people.
Around seven million Britons take the drugs – with the figure likely to rise hugely in future years.
NICE, the government’s drugs advisory body, recommends all adults over 50 with a 10 per cent risk of developing heart disease should take the drug. The threshold was previously 20 per cent.
Scientists at the University of California, San Diego School of Medicine, embarked on the research as previous links between statins and irritability and violence had been inconsistent.
Lead author Beatrice Golomb, professor of medicine, said the research was triggered because previous studies conducted mainly on men had shown that cholesterol-lowering drugs had increased the risk of ‘violent action’ in men.
She said: ‘There have been reports of some individuals reproducibly developing irritability or aggression when placed on statins.
‘We wanted to better understand how statins might affect aggression.’
The 1,000 men and postmenopausal women in the study were assigned one of two statins, simvastatin or pravastatin, or a placebo for six months.
Neither researchers nor trial participants knew who was receiving the drug or the placebo.
They were asked to keep a diary of their interactions with other people.
The records were analysed and scored for the amount of actual aggressive acts against others, self or objects in the prior week.
The researchers also measured two key factors linked to aggression: levels of the hormone testosterone and sleep problems – both of which are known to be affected by simavastatin.
The study found the sexes were affected differently.
Post-menopausal women were found to develop increased aggression, with the effect ‘stronger in women who began with lower aggression’.
The effect on men was more complex – with three male participants showing ‘very large increases in aggression.’
But when these three men were taken out of the analysis, there was a significant decline in aggressive behaviour for males.
The reduction was stronger among younger men who tend to be more aggressive on average, Professor Golomb said.
The researchers found that when on simvastatin, a drop in testosterone on average linked to a greater drop in aggression.
Two of the three men who developed the very aggressive behaviour were found to have developed ‘much worse’ sleep problems on simvastatin – and the disruption in sleep was thought to be a possible reason for the change.
Statins are unlikely to cause short-term memory loss, a study of one million patients suggests.
Previous research had raised fears that cholesterol-lowering statin drugs had an impact on memory.
But results from a large US study into the impacts of the medication concluded that those fears were unfounded.
Academics at Rutgers University in New Jersey found that people were no more likely to report memory problems on statins than on other cholesterol medication.
While complaints about memory did go up after patients started a course of statins, they did after starting other drugs as well.
Scientists are still unsure how to fully explain the findings.
One possibility is that lower cholesterol may reduce the hormone serotonin in the brain – and low serotonin has been found in psychiatric research to be linked to a rise in violent behaviour.
But in this study, the researchers did not find an association between lower serotonin levels and aggression.
Professor Golomb said: ‘The data reprise the finding that statins don’t affect all people equally - effects differ in men versus women and younger versus older.
'Female sex and older age have predicted less favourable effects of statins on a number of other outcomes as well, including survival.’
She added: ‘Either men or women can experience increased aggression on statins, but in men the typical effect is reduction.’
The chief medical officer, Professor Dame Sally Davies, has requested a review into the effectiveness of statins over concerns into side effects – although some researchers find that statins are safe and that the side effects are as common with placebos.
The NHS advises that around 1 in 10 people suffer common side effects on statins which can include, nosebleeds, sore throats, runny or blocked noses, headaches, feeling sick, stomach problems, muscle or joint pain, higher blood sugar and an increased risk of diabetes.
Rarer reported side effects include dizziness, ringing in the ears, memory problems and jaundice.
