
Former soap actress Claire Sweeney has spoken out about suffering with the skin condition eczema as she adjusts to life as a new mother.
The 44-year-old Brookside star - who welcomed her first child Jaxon in September - revealed that 'stress' triggers the distressing rash and she has tried a range of remedies, including aloe vera juice, in order to try and combat it.
Liverpool-born Claire had her first eczema flare up in 2000 as she was preparing to exit her role as Lindsey Corkhill in the now-defunct Channel 4 drama.
Scroll down for video



'I was just leaving Brookside and my relationship at the time was ending,' she said.
'My life was changing dramatically, I was moving to London and my career was really just taking off – it was a lot to deal with.
'It knocked my confidence since I got flare ups on my face and I'm in the spotlight a lot.'
The mother-of-one desperately tried to cover up the rash with make-up but that often made it worse.
'It would often turn into pimples that wouldn't budge,' she added.
After visiting a doctor on London's prestigious Harley Street, Claire, whose mother had psoriasis, tried a range of herbal lotions before moving on to special ailment creams.
'At first I was trying to deal with it all naturally with aloe vera juice,' she said.
'But eventually I ended up using emollient creams such as Cetraben, which have really helped.
'Also, getting enough air on your skin is really important – don't be tempted to cover it up all the time.'
While the condition subsided for a while it did flare up again last year during her pregnancy with baby boy Jaxon, now nine-months-old.
'Everyone goes on about pregnant women glowing, well I had to deal with severely dry skin and I had dry patches all over my body,' she said.
'Wanting to not use anything full of parabens or SLS, I used Cetraben cream and the relief was immediate. I carry it with me all the time.'

Having just finished the UK tour of her musical comedy Sex In Surburbia, which she co-wrote and stars in, Claire is now enjoying some 'downtime' in Spain with her son.
Claire has spoken before about her struggle to have a baby, including two 'heartbreaking' miscarriages in 2013.
'I've always wanted to be a mum and nothing, not even being in my 40s was going to get in the way. It has not been an easy ride though,' she said.
'I suffered two really heartbreaking miscarriages before Jaxon was born last September. Nothing prepares you for the sense of loss but I was determined to keep trying and even willing to give IVF a try.
'I've also never ruled out adoption – it is a wonderful way of parenting, especially for older couples.'

When she was pregnant with Jaxon, she started spotting and was diagnosed with placenta previa, where the placenta drops down above the cervix and any impact or too much movement can make it bleed.
She has also suffered with a condition called symphysis pubis dysfunction (SPD) - inflamed pelvic joints - which made it painful to walk. As the due date drew nearer, Jaxon was in breach position, so she had to have a caesarean section.
'Despite some complications, I did love being pregnant. As a woman, it felt beautiful and I learned a lot about myself during those months,' she said.
'You bond with your baby so much in advance of its birth so much so that I was bursting with joy when Jaxon arrived.'

Having split from Jaxon's father Daniel Reilly after a rocky few years in April 2014, the couple reunited in September after their baby was born.
Following a well-earned rest this summer, Claire is busy trying to get back to her pre-baby figure and is set to tour again with Hairspray from September to March 2016, playing former beauty queen and high-powered stage mum, Velma Von Tussle.
'I exercise everyday. I'm aware that I don't have the energy of a 24 year old so I make sure I am in good shape to be a mum in my 40s,' she said.


'I'd say to other older women wanting to be mums – make the decision that is right for you but don't put yourself or your body through too much in trying to get pregnant.
'If it is successful, take good care of yourself as you have to maintain really great health and stamina at any age to be a mother but especially when you are a little older.
'Keep it all in balance though – there is always time for the odd treat!'
Claire Sweeney is the face of leading eczema skin treatment Cetraben. Prices range from £4.99 for 50ml.