Confusing food labels could be making us fat due to 'information overload' | Daily Mail Online

While many of us will check the back of food packaging at the supermarket, we will not necessarily make the right choices, according to a new survey.
The report, based on a series of interviews, found that while shoppers try to eat healthily, more than a third are completely baffled by nutritional labels.
Many consumers complained that they suffered from 'information overload' and a lack of contextual knowledge.
The so-called traffic light system - where the fat, sugar and salt content are labelled red, orange or green - had consumers scratching their heads in particular.
It could be thwarting the government's best attempts to promote healthy eating and cut rising obesity levels.

Dr Sheena Leek, from the department of marketing at the University of Birmingham, who lead the study, said: 'The aim of front of pack nutritional labelling is to help customers make healthy dietary choices as an aid to reducing obesity.
'We found that the range of labels used by retailers and manufacturers can be confusing to customers for a number of reasons.
'The number of individual pieces of information on a product - such as fat, saturated fat, salt, sugar and calories, as well as percentage of guideline daily amount, grams per serving and a related colour scheme - can cause overload confusion.
'Our research found that customers try to get round this by focusing on one or two elements - for example, calories and fat.
'We found the traffic light system in particular can be confusing. Should red labels be avoided altogether? Is a product with two reds and three greens healthier than a product with five oranges?'
The study revealed that customers were also confused by the technical complexities, such as the difference between fat and saturated fat.
Furthermore a lack of contextual knowledge about what constitutes a healthy diet hampered some  decision making.
Dr Leek added: 'People are in a hurry when they do their shopping, spending in general no more than ten seconds scanning nutritional labels. We need to make things easier for them.'
The study involved face-to-face interviews with 30 shoppers of varying demographics and was based on three ready-meal lasagnes.

In one test, 40 per cent of shoppers could not identify the healthier product when two traffic light systems - circular and horizontal - were compared, while a quarter struggled to pick out the best option when it had the circular label.
Overall, one in seven of the decisions taken by respondents were incorrect.
Dr Leek said: 'This research has highlighted the elements of the front of pack labelling format that cause confusion.
'The Government must focus on educating consumers on what constitutes a healthy diet to help them work out how to balance the traffic light colours.
'There is certainly room to improve the current system, thus enabling people to follow healthier diets and reducing the degree of obesity among the UK population.'
The research is published in the 3 Journal of Customer Behaviour.
