
A diabetes drug approved for use as a weight-loss aid helped obese people lose more than a stone, a new study has revealed.
And the medication has proved to be effective in the long-term with most patients keeping their weight off for the duration of the year-long study, researchers said.
Liraglutide is a diabetes drug that is injected into the stomach before breakfast.
In its weight-loss capacity the medication acts to suppress a person's appetite.
The new study, a randomised controlled trial, was conducted at 191 sites in 27 countries across the world, over 56 weeks.
Patients in the study were 18 and older and each had a body mass index of 30 or higher.
BMI is calculated by weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters.
The healthy range for most people is 19 to 25 BMI.
Of the 3,731 volunteers, about two thirds were given the drug plus training to improve their lifestyle habits.
The remaining participants followed the same lifestyle intervention but were given a placebo.
The trial was double-blind, meaning that neither patients or doctors knew if they were dealing with the real drug or the placebo.
Those who received the drug were given a higher dose (three milligrams) than is prescribed for diabetes patients (1.8 milligrams), and were injected with the drug under the skin daily.
Researchers found those people in the placebo group lost an average of six pounds.
But, those who were given the drug averaged around  three times more weight loss.
A total of 63 per cent of those in the liraglutide group lost at least five percent of their body weight, compared to 27 percent in the placebo group.
Liraglutide, which will be marketed as Saxenda by Novo Nordisk, is based on a hormone found in the gut.
It sends signals to the brain that trick it into feeling full.
As a result, past studies have found people eat 10 per cent less food than normal.
Obesity levels have doubled over the past two decades, making the UK the second-fattest nation in Europe.
Being obese can knock up to nine years off a lifespan and raises the risk of a host of health problems including diabetes, heart disease, stroke and cancer.
Kevin Williams, chief of endocrinology, diabetes and metabolism at Temple University Health, Philadelphia, described the weight loss in the liraglutide group as 'significant.'
Dr Williams was not involved in the study.
Side effects included gastrointestinal distress, gallstones and a slight increase in breast cancer risk.
Researchers said more study is needed on the breast cancer findings, and said it was possible that weight loss enabled more tumors to be found.
'This is another approach in tackling the obesity epidemic in our country,' said Elias Siraj, director of the Diabetes Program at Temple University Hospital, who along with Williams penned an accompanying editorial in the journal.
'Fortunately, even modest weight loss of five percent to 10 percent makes nearly all medical issues more manageable.'
Liraglutide has been used at a lower dose for treating diabetes in recent years, and some patients noticed it appeared to help them lose weight.
About 35 percent of adult Americans, or about 100 million people, live with obesity.
Two other anti-obesity drugs were launched in the United States in 2012, but the treatments carry side effects and are not widely used.
In March the European Commission granted marketing authorisation for Saxenda for the treatment of obesity, covering all 28 EU nations.
It is hoped the drug could be available in the UK this year.
And in April, Novo Nordisk announced the drug was available in the US, after gaining FDA approval last December.


The findings were published in the New England Journal of Medicine.