Disabled Kai Laidlaw spends £3500 on hotels to be near son battling cancer | Daily Mail Online


A disabled father has been forced to spend £3,500 on hotels over the past two weeks to be near his cancer-stricken toddler as he battles for life.
Two-year-old Kai Laidlaw has leukaemia and doctors in Glasgow are preparing to give the him a bone marrow transplant in a last-ditch bid to save his life.
His father, Calvin, who is severely disabled due to multiple sclerosis (MS) and lives 50 miles away, has had no choice but to move into expensive hotels in the city to be close to his son.
Currently in a wheelchair and unable even to feed himself, the 49-year-old from Leith, Edinburgh, cannot cope with the commute to Glasgow.
Last week he was forced to stay at The Hilton, the only hotel he could find with vacancies, as it was near the hospital and was wheelchair friendly. But the stay set him back £2,400.
The next week he moved into the Plaza, where is currently staying, but that is still costing the family £1,100 a week.
So far, he and his fiancé Pamela have not been able to find suitable rental accommodation.
The couple have been helped with generous donations from family and friends but are desperate for a more permanent solution to their accommodation crisis.
Kai, who could be in hospital in Glasgow for up to six months, was diagnosed with infant acute lymphoblastic leukaemia when he was just eight months old.
After ongoing treatments for the rare, deadly cancer of the blood, he relapsed in March.
Doctors said without a bone marrow transplant he would only have months to live.
'Kai relapsed in March, they didn't think he would make it,' said his mother Pamela Neilson, 38.
'Calvin has progressive MS and is in a wheelchair at the moment. He can't walk at all and needs a hoist to get him into the shower room and bed.'
Mr Laidlaw also has a lot of equipment such as hoists to get him into bed and into the shower.
These require a lot of space, which has made it especially difficult to find appropriate rooms.
The price of the hotel rooms includes a room for his carer to stay.
'We couldn't get any property to rent in Glasgow. Every time we call up it's gone or they are not interested in a short-term lease.
'I'm looking into it, as are family and friends. We've looked at hundreds of places. I've got emails from countless letting agencies saying they don't have any suitable properties.'
She has had discussions with various charities that provide accommodation for families while children are in hospital, but so far none have been able to help.
'I stay in the hospital room with Kai,' she explained. 'You can’t have two parents stay in.'
She said she had also spoken to The Ronald McDonald House Charity, but they couldn't help either.
She explained: 'Calvin needs someone with him 24/7, we were told that his carer couldn't stay. It wasn’t something they could do.'
She said the Clic Sargent charity had also tried to help, but did not have available but it also couldn’t help out.
'In Glasgow the Clic Sargent didn’t have any ground floor rooms.' She continued: 'They've never had the situation where the carer has to stay as well.”'
She added: 'Yorkhill Children’s Charity have been trying different places for us as well.'
Opting to stay in a hotel was the family's last resort.
She continued: 'We went into the Hilton. Basically it's the busiest time of the year, there are concerts, festivals and everything going on.
'We were calling round all the hotels. When I called the Hilton they had availability - which was the hardest part.

'It also had to have a wet room for Calvin and the be near the hospital.
'We're booked into the Plaza for this week. The Hilton for that week cost £2,400. It's £1,100 for the second week at the Plaza. We're due to move out of the Plaza on Monday.'
Asked how they have managed to pay the hefty hotel bills, she said: 'Friends and family have been fundraising which has been a tremendous help.
'Strangers as well have been amazing - we were very touched.
'Of the savings we do have, everything has gone into this. This is Kai's only chance. We have to give everything we've got.
'We never thought he would make it to this age. But he has. It is the worse medical condition he has ever been in - but he fights so hard.
'There is quite a high chance it won't work but there is a chance is could. Any chance is worth a try.'
She added: 'I'm not complaining, we're getting a chance to save Kai which is priceless. I feel like we're being punished more because Calvin is a wheelchair user.
'Having to stress about all this - it makes him feel like he's a burden. He shouldn't feel like that in this day and age.'
Mr Laidlaw, who has difficulties with his speech, said: 'It's been horrendous. It's hard.'
For more information on the family's plight, visit the dedicated Facebook page.

Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is a cancer of the white blood cells.
All white blood cells are made in the bone marrow.
There are two different types of white blood cells - lymphocytes and myeloid cells.
They work together to fight infection.
Normally, white blood cells develop, repair and reproduce in an orderly and controlled way.
But in leukaemia, the process gets out of control and the cells continue to divide in the bone marrow, but do not mature.
These immature dividing cells fill up the bone marrow and stop it from making healthy blood cells.
As the leukaemia cells fail to mature, they cannot work properly to fight infections.
This leads to an increased risk of infection, and because the bone marrow cannot make enough healthy red blood cells and platelets, symptoms such as anaemia and bruising can occur.
There are four main types of leukaemia:
Chronic forms of the disease tend to affect adults and are very rare in children.
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is specifically a cancer of the immature lymphocytes, called lymphoblasts or blast cells.
The causes of ALL are not yet known but studies have found identical twins and brothers and sister are at an increased risk of the disease.
Symptoms of ALL are similar to other forms of leukaemia, and include:
Source: Macmillan Cancer Support
