

A leading doctor is today leading calls for the Welsh NHS to improve its medical training after his mother died of a heart attack following 'inadequate care'.
Dr Amer Jafar, one of Wales' most senior medical consultants, was awarded £4,000 compensation after an investigation uncovered a spate of failings in the care of his 79-year-old mother.
Dr Jafar called for the investigation after he said 'unimaginable mistakes' were made at the University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff over his mother Zahar Al Hasani's death.
A report found there was a three-and-a-half hour delay in identifying and treating her condition when she was taken into hospital.
It also found there was a similar three-hour delay in giving her pain relieving paracetamol and then a six hour delay in giving her antibiotics.
Dr Jafar made a complaint to the health board after claiming his mother's poor care had led to her suffering a fatal heart attack in March 2014.
He said his elderly mother, who had a history of heart disease, was assessed wrongly by a doctor in his final year of training who 'misdiagnosed and mismanaged' her sepsis and failed to follow the 'sepsis pathway'.
Sepsis is a common condition triggered by an infection but can quickly become life-threatening if it is not treated properly.
Dr Jafar described the management at University Hospital of Wales in Cardiff as 'not appropriate' and said 'unimaginable mistakes' had been made.
Iraqi-born Dr Jafar, who has worked in South Wales for more than 25 years, said: 'I have complained to the General Medical Council about the doctor who made this misdiagnosis.
'At the time the mistake occurred, he was in the final year of training and should have been able to identify the symptoms easily.
'I want to make sure that the training of doctors in Cardiff is of the required high standard.
'I also believe that in the interests of transparency, mortality rates for consultant physicians should be published in the same way as for surgeons.'
The respected doctor was recently won the top award for Teaching and Learning Innovation in Wales at an event hosted by the British Medical Association.
He was awarded for organising the teaching programme for undergraduate medical students from Cardiff University and participating in the teaching programme for trainee Doctors.
Dr Jafar said he went to the Ombudsman because he had 'difficulty in getting the health board to respond openly to my concerns' following his mother's death.
He said: 'I have now received a personal apology from the chief executive about the poor treatment my mother received and have been given a timescale within which improvements are to be implemented.
'I am concerned to ensure that what happened to my mother does not happen to anyone else.'
Public Services Ombudsman for Wales Nick Bennett urged the health board to formally remind doctors and nurses involved in Mrs Al Hasani's care to follow the relevant record-keeping guidance.
The report said Mrs Al Hasani was suffering from sepsis and called on the health board to provide up-to-date sepsis training.
Cardiff and Vale Health Board admitted there had been 'breaches in the duty of care'.
Executive nurse director Ruth Walker said: 'The health board accepts that we could have improved several aspects of the care we provided to this patient and we are fully implementing the Ombudsman's recommendations.
'The health board recognises the risks posed by sepsis and we have been working hard to raise awareness amongst all staff of the symptoms and steps to take to help save lives.'
Welsh Labour MP Ann Clwyd, who has campaigned against poor standards of care in the NHS, said: 'It is shocking cases like this that show how important it is to make sure that the health service is well regulated and that improvements are introduced quickly.'

