Duston woman left mortified by unflattering wedding snaps loses SEVEN STONE | Daily Mail Online

A buxom bridesmaid who was left ashamed after seeing pictures of herself at her sister's wedding has lost nearly half her body weight to become a bodybuilding champion.
Sarah Oldham, 32, who tipped the scales at 16st got a wake up call after struggling to squeeze into a size 22 bridesmaid's dress.
Sarah, from Duston, Northampton, has lost seven stone through her rigorous fitness regime and is now  8st 7lb and a svelte size eight.
Muscular Sarah won her first competition earlier this year and is now off to represent the UK in Tenerife in October.
The insurance claims team leader said: 'I was a bridesmaid for my sister's wedding a couple of years ago and was mortified when I had to wear a size 22 dress.
'I knew I had to do something, I just wasn't happy in my own body. At my heaviest I was nearly 16 stone.'
One day she found herself flicking through the wedding pictures and, feeling ashamed, she vowed to change.
Sarah said: 'I initially lost some weight but the turning point was when a local gym opened near my home 18 months ago.
'I joined, but started getting bored after 15 minutes and thought that's me done for today.
'I had been following a few personal trainers on Facebook and Twitter for a bit of motivation and saw something about bikini fitness which I though was quite achievable for me.'
It was the motivation Sarah needed, and after overhauling her diet and fitness regime she began competing in shows.
Sarah recalled: 'I got a personal trainer, and soon progressed into the 'toned' category. One of my highlights was winning Miss Toned Northants 2015. I just love the feeling of competing, let alone getting first prize.
'It was amazing. It made me realise I can achieve goals if I set my mind to it.'
Sarah, who lives with her truck driver husband Andy, 46,  is so dedicated that she trains for two hours at the gym five days a week.
On top of that she follows a strict diet of chicken, broccoli and rice to help her stay lean and build muscle.
Her personal trainer allows her to treat herself on weekends when she eats salmon, sweet potato and carbohydrates.
She added: 'You lose more weight when you have more muscle as your are burning calories. I would recommend bodybuilding training as it gives you curves.
'Even when I'm not in the gym, I'm on my exercise bike at home when I watch the TV of an evening. If I could do it full time I would.
'My personal trainer lets me have a 're-feed day' which means I can have a treat in the form of 200g of carbs. I usually have a few bowls of cereal.
'I think a lot of women are scared to go into what I call the 'meathead' weights area in the gym but I would say "go for it".
'Everybody has noticed a difference in my confidence since I started bodybuilding. It has really changed my life.'
