Ebola returns to Liberia as teenager's death marks the first case for  6 weeks | Daily Mail Online

Ebola has returned to Liberia, health officials revealed today as it emerged the body of a teenager tested positive for the disease.
Just 42 days ago the country, which was at the epicentre of the crisis, was declared free of the virus.
Over the course of the epidemic, which began in December 2013, a total of 11,207 people have so far lost their lives to Ebola, according to the World Health Organisation.
The majority of those deaths occurred in Guinea, where the outbreak originated, as well as in neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone.
Around 43 per cent of the total deaths were in Liberia, where the outbreak reached its height between last August and October, with hundreds of cases each week.

While the recent death, of a 17-year-old boy, will raise fears of a resurgence, health officials in the country and at the WHO are urging people to try and remain calm.
Deputy health minister, Tolbert Nyenswah, said: 'There is no need to panic.
'The corpse has been buried and our contact tracing has started work.'
The victim hails from Margibi, a rural area close to the country's capital, Monrovia, and is home to the country's major international airport.
Mr Nyenswah told a local radio station that experts have already traced and quarantined a number of people who may have had contact with the teenage victim.
But he failed to divulge the numbers or any details of the patient.
'We are investigating to know the origin of this new case,' he added.
'We ask all Liberians and all other nationals living in Liberia to continue taking the preventive measures.'


The case represents a setback for Liberia, which was declared Ebola free on May 9 after going 42 days without a new case.
That period is double the number of days the virus requires to incubate, and WHO hailed its eradication as an enormous development in the long crisis.
The United States and several international organisations had urged caution, however.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest warned the world not to forget that the outbreak was still a reality in Sierra Leone and Guinea.
'We must not let down our guard until the entire region reaches and stays at zero Ebola cases,' he said on May 9.
The WHO also warned that because the Ebola outbreaks were continuing in neighbouring Guinea and Sierra Leone, the risk remained high that infected people could re-enter the country.
With that very real risk in mind, medical aid agency Doctors Without Borders, which has been at the forefront of battling the outbreak since it emerged in Guinea, was also muted in its applause of the WHO's assertion that Liberia had beaten Ebola.
It tempered Liberia's jubilation with reminders that the crisis would not be over for any one nation until the virus has been eradicated everywhere.
Sierra Leone and Guinea had been seeing numbers of new cases drop dramatically.
But the decline has halted and the countries have been recording around 20 to 27 new cases a week since the beginning of May.
A total of 12 new confirmed cases were reported in Guinea and eight in Sierra Leone in the seven days up to 21 June, according to WHO figures.
WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told reporters in Geneva the UN health body had been informed of the latest case.

At the height of the crisis in late September Liberia was suffering more than 300 new cases a week, with uncollected and highly infectious bodies piling up in the streets of Monrovia, a sprawling, chaotic city at the best of times.
The health system - embryonic before the crisis, with some 50 doctors and 1,000 nurses for 4.3 million people - was devastated, losing 192 health workers out of 378 infected.
Schools remained shut after the summer holidays, unemployment soared as the formal and black-market economies collapsed and clinics closed as staff died and non-emergency healthcare ground to a halt.
Liberia, which recorded 389 deaths in one week last October alone, finally saw fatality counts drop below 100 late last year, and into single figures by the start of this year.
A new safe test that detects Ebola within minutes could help doctors stop the spread of the deadly disease.
The device, which requires just a pinprick of blood, can be used at the bedside of patients and is as accurate as traditional lab tests that can take days.
A drop of blood is taken from a finger prick performed with a safety lancet, which has a spring-loaded mechanism that prevents health care workers from accidental stabbing themselves with the needle after the sample is taken.
It works similarly to a home pregnancy test, with the sample applied to a treated strip.
If the sample is positive for Ebola, a coloured line appears on the strip at a specific location.
It does away with the need to build biologically secure laboratories, the need to take large blood samples with needles and then transport them long distances which runs the risk of contaminating health workers.
And doctors can isolate infected patients more quickly, so reducing the risk of it spreading and starting treatments earlier so survival chances are improved.
A field trial of the test, developed by the US company Corgenix, took place at two treatment centres run by the Ministry of Health and Sanitation in Sierra Leone.
A total of 106 patients suspected of having Ebola were given the fingerprick test and also had their blood analysed the normal way.
Every case of Ebola confirmed in the laboratory using the standard procedure was detected by the bedside test, with very few non-infected people wrongly testing positive.
However both tests failed to pick up a small number of Ebola cases that were identified by an alternative ultra-sensitive lab test which is not widely available.
Dr Nira Pollock, from Boston Children's Hospital in the US, who led a trial of the test reported in The Lancet medical journal, said: 'Simplifying the process and speeding up diagnosis could have a major impact.'
The device was the ReEBOV Antigen Rapid Test developed by Corgenix.
The Public Health England lab at Port Loko in Sierra Leone, where clinical samples were routinely sent for standard molecular diagnostic testing, confirmed diagnosis.