
A high-flying public relations executive was forced to take six months off work because she was sweating so much she was too embarrassed to go into the office.
Esme De Silva's had suffered from excessive sweating – or hyperhidrosis as it is known medically – since she was a teenager.
But as she got older her anxiety over the condition grew so severe she had to take a sabbatical from work.
Miss De Silva, from Maidenhead, Berkshire, said her self-esteem was at an all-time low after struggling with years of cruel comments and nasty looks from strangers.
But now the 25-year-old is finally on the road to rebuilding her confidence – and is even engaged.
Scroll down for video
'I got teased at school because of my sweating and, over the years, I built up a paranoia that people were talking about or laughing at me,' she said.
'The sweating took over my life. At school, I had to wash my uniform every single night and make sure I always had spray, deodorant, perfume and a change of clothes in my bag.
'Shopping can be a nightmare. I have to be really careful with materials as anything synthetic makes the problem ten times worse, but that's what most high street clothes are made from.
'Travelling also had an effect. I'd come up from riding on the Tube feeling soaked and really self-conscious.'
By 2014, Miss De Silva's anxiety around her excessive sweating had become so unbearable she took a six-month break from work.
With her confidence in tatters she began to feel depressed, and the long term relationship she was in at the time broke down.
'I was a nervous wreck at work,' she said. 'I felt like I couldn't do my job to the best of my ability.
'All I could think about was whether or not people were staring at me. I was so paranoid the sweat was visible through my clothes and on my hands and face.'
Over the years, Miss De Silva has had a string of consultations with doctors, who tried everything from changing her diet to wearing armpit shields to absorb excessive sweat, but nothing worked.
When medics suggested the next step was to explore the option of injecting Miss De Silva's armpits with Botox, she began researching alternative treatments.
'I couldn't bare the idea of injections,' she said.
She said a friend taught her about Odaban, an antiperspirant applied overnight to help combat excessive sweating.
Since using it, Miss De Silva says she is sweating less and slowly regaining her confidence.
She has begun a new freelance career and is even planning her wedding to fiancé Anthony, 26, who proposed when the pair holidayed to Cuba at the end of 2014.
'It did me good to take some time out and work through my anxiety,' she said.
'I feel like a different person now. There's no pressure or paranoia that people are talking about me. I don't have to worry about sweat soaking right through my clothes as it did before.
'My condition had a massive effect on previous relationships but now I can relax and plan my future with Anthony.'
Hyperhidrosis is a common condition in which a person sweats excessively.
The sweating may affect the whole of your body, or it may only affect certain areas.
Commonly affected areas include the armpits, palms of the hands, soles of the feet, face and chest and groin.
Both sides of the body are usually affected equally – for example, both feet or both hands.
The sweating doesn't usually pose a serious threat to a person's health, but it can be embarrassing and distressing.
It can also have a negative impact on a person's quality of life and may lead to feelings of depression and anxiety.
In many cases, hyperhidrosis has no obvious cause and is thought to be the result of a problem with the part of the nervous system that controls sweating. This is known as primary hyperhidrosis.
Hyperhidrosis that does have an identifiable cause is known as secondary hyperhidrosis.
This can have many different triggers, including pregnancy or the menopause, anxiety, certain medications, low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia), an overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism) and infections.
Source: NHS Choices
