
A young woman who faints up to six times a day fears her unusual condition will mean she may never be a mother due to the risk of fainting and crushing the baby.
Jordan Marshall, 21, has been fainting regularly since she was just 16, but the condition is now so severe it has cost her her job.
The former teaching assistant from Romford, Essex, has miraculously escaped without any major injuries after fainting down multiple flights of stairs and even into a swimming pool.
She suffers from a condition called vasovagal syncope - or 'common fainting'.
Her fainting episodes also mean she must constantly have someone watching her - and can't even leave the house without supervision.
Despite trying a number of different medications, she has not yet found a successful prevention and says her life is currently on hold.
Miss Marshall said: 'Although fainting has become a normal part of my life, it has held me back in so many ways.
'I lost my job, I can't go to university and I wouldn't dream of having a baby with my boyfriend at this stage because it would be a huge risk.
'I would like kids before I'm 25, but I don't get any warning when I'm going to faint so I couldn't put the baby in danger in that way.
'I am desperate to find a treatment that works for me so that my life can carry on.
'I don't live like a normal young woman I can't go clubbing, on girls' holidays or even drive a car.'
She says most doctors believe she will eventually grow out of it, but others have said further testing may help to find the underlying cause.'
When Miss Marshall first fainted at home aged 16, having just begun her A Levels, her shocked parents Samantha and Wayne phoned an ambulance.
She had tests in hospital and was sent home after being diagnosed with a urine infection - only to faint again a week later in the college canteen.
From that point, her fainting episodes accelerated to up to six times a day, often in highly dangerous locations such as down the stairs, while crossing the road or on public transport.
Miss Marshall said: 'The first few times were terrifying as I obviously had no idea what had happened when I woke up again.
'It went from every few days to every single day, then several times a day until it completely took over my life.
'Specialists checked my heart, I had a brain scan and blood counts, but they couldn't find anything.'
In December 2010, further tests revealed she had vasovagal syncope, which literally just means fainting.

'Everyone has it in a different form and unfortunately I don't know what triggers mine,' said Miss Marshall.
'After the diagnosis I had to sell the car my parents had bought me for doing well in my GCSEs. I was devastated.'
Her condition also meant she fell behind with her A levels and needed an extra year to complete them.
Fainting (syncope) is caused by a temporary reduction in blood flow to the brain.
Blood flow to the brain can be interrupted for a number of reasons. The different causes of fainting are explained below.
Fainting is most commonly caused by a temporary malfunction in the autonomic nervous system. This type of fainting is sometimes known as neurally mediated syncope.
The autonomic nervous system is made up of the brain, nerves and spinal cord.
It regulates automatic bodily functions, such as heart rate and blood pressure.
An external trigger – such as an unpleasant sight, heat or sudden pain – can temporarily cause the autonomic nervous system to stop working properly, resulting in a fall in blood pressure and fainting.
It may also cause the heartbeat to slow down or pause for a few seconds, resulting a temporary interruption to the brain's blood supply.
This is called vasovagal syncope.
Source: NHS Choices
Four years ago she began a relationship with family friend Charlie Fiander, now 20, who she praises for sticking by her through such a tough time.
She said: 'Charlie has been absolutely amazing, as has his family.
At times I felt so guilty about what he had to put up with that I thought about ending our relationship for his sake. I got very low at one stage because of my medication.
'I've tried a few different treatments including steroids and something similar to beta blockers.
'One of them made me so depressed, it was unbearable. I would have good and bad phases with the fainting sometimes once a week, sometimes lots in one day and we had to be prepared for it to happen wherever I went.'
Miraculously, despite fainting so regularly, Miss Marshall has managed to escape with only concussion and bruising, and considers herself lucky.
She said: 'I've done a full flight of stairs on more than one occasion but because my body goes so floppy I've never broken any bones.
'Now on the stairs at home I have to go down on my bum like a child and crawl up on my hands and knees.
'For that reason, I'm a risk whenever I'm using stairs in public places.
'I've knocked my head countless times after fainting near furniture, but I've been so lucky to only have bumps and bruises.
'The worst occasion was when I fainted in my bedroom and my mirror fell on my head.
'It didn't smash but when my mum and dad came in I was screaming and rocking myself and I didn't recognise them.
'I've got no memory of that, but they had to wait until I fainted again and then when I came round I was back to normal. That loss of control is the most frightening part.'
She is often hospitalised as a precaution after fainting and has had several X-rays, CT scans and once an MRI scan.
After beginning a 'dream' job as a teaching assistant in a special needs school last September, her condition grew worse and she was granted sick leave.
However, after her temporary contract expires in August, the school has informed her she won't be re-hired.
Miss Marshall said: 'I'm gutted about losing my job but I completely understand why it had to happen. I was a danger to the kids, fainting so unexpectedly.
'How could I be expected to have vulnerable children in my care? If I ever get better, my dream is to do a degree in psychology or history, then a PGCE so I can teach in a special needs school.'
She is now on the waiting list for a video telemetry test. This is where medics monitor the heart and brain during a faint to try and find some answers, but the waiting time is about 40 weeks.
Miss Marshall added: 'I try to stay positive but it has been really hard at times. I can't wait to have kids but that's out of the question until I get this under control.
I know I'm young with my whole life ahead of me, but this needs to be sorted out.'
