Exercises After an Osteoporosis-Related Fracture: Ankle, Hip, Wrist, and Shoulder


Worried about getting back into your exercise routine after you’ve had a fracture? You might be surprised to know that experts say it's one of the best ways to make your bones stronger.
Every day you're off your feet, you're setting yourself up for more fractures down the road, says Margaret Martin, author of the MelioGuide Exercise for Better Bones. "The faster you can get back to weight-bearing activity, the better."
Once your doctor gives you the go-ahead, lace up those sneakers and get started. Just make sure you exercise safely. Here are some guidelines.

Choose weight-bearing exercises. Try walking or climbing stairs. It can keep your bones strong and help prevent fractures.
Do resistance training. It boosts muscle mass and strengthens your bones.
"Patients who do intensive resistance exercise for 6-12 months following surgery improve their ability to get up, walk, climb stairs, and do household tasks," says Petros Efthimiou, MD, associate chief of rheumatology at New York Methodist Hospital. Try free weights or weight machines.
Include balance and flexibility exercises. They can help you avoid a fall, which is a common cause of hip fractures. Try yoga, tai chi, and gentle stretching.
Practice good posture. Lift your breastbone and keep your eyes forward. Put your shoulders back and gently pinch your shoulder blades together. Instead of bending from your waist, flex from your hips or knees.
Wear safe shoes. Pick a pair that's made for the activity you've chosen, and make sure they fit properly. Don’t get ones with slippery soles.
Exercises that have a high risk of falling. On the no-no list: downhill skiing, skating, and contact sports.
Activities that use a twisting motion. That rules out golf.
Sit-ups or toe touches. Exercises that flex or rotate your spine, repeatedly or vigorously, can lead to new fractures.
Heavy lifting during workouts. It puts stress on the bones in your back.
Some exercise machines. Don't use ones that create resistance against your spine or rotate your torso. And take a pass on rowing machines or stationary bicycles with back-and-forth arm movements.
Painful exercise. Stop your workout if you start to hurt.