Expiry dates for pillows, trainers, bras, sponges and toothbrushes | Daily Mail Online

From scourers that need to be binned after just a week to bras that should never have a birthday, Mandy Francis finds out what needs to be thrown out and when for the good of your health.
PART WITH PILLOWS AFTER SIX MONTHS
'The longevity of your pillows will vary widely, depending on quality and filling material,' says Neville Moore, Managing Director of online bedding retailer Slumber Slumber.
'Cheap polyester-filled pillows can lose their supportive fluffiness and need replacing after as little as six months. Down-filled pillows tend to stay supportive for up to five years, with feather and wool pillows for up to eight years.
Scroll down for video
'It's easy to get used to sleeping on thin, lumpy, sub-standard pillows, but they can lead to neck and back pain — and, if not washed and cared for correctly, can fill with dirt, oil, dead skin and dust mites, which can exacerbate allergies such as asthma. A good pillow should support your head and neck and keep them aligned with your spine when you are lying down.'
Try physiotherapist Sammy Margo's 'broken pillow test'. Simply, fluff your pillow up, then fold it in half lengthways. Place a trainer on top of the folded pillow. If the pillow stays folded, its time to replace it. If the pillow springs back and throws off the shoe — it's full of bounce and fine to use.
TURF OUT TOOTHBRUSHES AFTER 30 DAYS
'Most people hang on to their toothbrushes for far longer than they should,' says Dr Amer Saeed, clinical director of Garden Square Dental in West London.
'They usually wait until the bristles start to splay — which means the brush is less capable of removing plaque and may damage the gums. But dental experts recommend manual and electric brushes should be changed once a month if you suffer with bleeding gums and after three months in any case.
'Although you may not be able to see any damage — a combination of wear and tear and poor brush maintenance can cause a huge build up of bacteria which can lead to contamination of the gums and possible infection.'
To keep your brush in tip top condition, he advises giving it a thorough final rinse with warm water to remove residue and food particles each time you use it, followed by a quick splash of mouthwash. 'The cleansing and antibacterial ingredients in the mouthwash will help keep bacteria at bay,' he says.
BIN BRAS EVERY EIGHT MONTHS
'Your favourite bras should never see a birthday!' says Elise Recour, General Manager for bra manufacturer Gossard. 'This may sound extravagant, but if you are wearing a bra regularly, even if it's high quality and you take good care of it, you will start to lose support and comfort, and the boost and uplift you bought it for will be substantially reduced after eight months or so.
For best longevity, Recour recommends buying bras in darker colours 'Due to the dyeing process, darker coloured bras tend to feel tighter and stay in shape for longer than white bras. Handwashing with a gentle detergent is also recommended to preserve wiring, support, padding and elasticity.'
CHUCK OUT SCOURERS AFTER A WEEK
'No matter how thoroughly you clean your kitchen, if you use an old sponge, there's a good chance you will be spreading bacteria over your surfaces, rather than removing it,' says Simon Blackhurst, technical manager at Minky, a company that holds two Royal warrants for its cleaning products. A moist kitchen sponge offers the ideal breeding ground for bacteria — up to 10 million per square inch have been found in tests, including, campylobacter, which comes from poultry and can cause paralysis.
'To keep bacteria to a minimum, replace your sponge scourer with a new one every week,' advises Blackhurst. 'In between, rinse thoroughly, squeeze out and leave it on a clean surface, rather than in the sink, so it has a chance to air dry.'
NEW CYCLE HELMETS EVERY THREE YEARS
There is no strict rule 'but we recommend adults replace theirs at least every three years to compensate for general wear and tear,' says Halfords' Assistant Buyer for Adult Helmets, Katy Jackson. 'Children's helmets will need to be replaced more often, of course, as they grow, and any bike helmet should be replaced if it's been subject to an impact of any size — even a short drop onto concrete, as the protective outer shell will be weakened.'
BLEACH GOES OFF IN SEVEN MONTHS
'Most cleaning products have a shelf life of a year or two,' says Yvonne Manomano, operations manager for Handy, the house cleaning and maintenance company. 'But household bleach is an exception. Because of its volatile chemical make-up, bleach starts to degrade and lose its efficacy much more quickly than other cleaners.
For best results, an unopened bottle of bleach should always be used within seven months of purchase, and within three months once the bottle has been opened. Write the date of your purchase — and when you started using it — on the bottle, to keep track.'
CHANGE TRAINERS EVERY SIX MONTHS
'Although trainers don't come with an expiry date stamped on them, we usually suggest they need replacing after they've been walked or run in for 500 miles,' says Mark Miles, head of product merchandising for Puma.
'Obviously this is just a handy rule of thumb, as wear and tear will vary according to the terrain you cover, your weight and gait.'
'Generally, this equates to six months of average wear. As trainers start to wear out, the inner lining in the sole will feel less flexible.
'When you press on the outside of the shoe — on the mid sole — if it feels soft, but doesn't spring back, it's time for a new pair.'
'Never put trainers in the washing machine or dry them on a radiator if you want to keep them in good condition for longer,' says Miles, 'it will affect the density of the supportive foam and can shrink the mesh and fabric. A quick wipe over and air dry is always best.'
NEW SMOKE ALARMS EVERY TEN YEARS
All smoke alarms, even the kind that are wired in to your mains electricity — should be replaced after ten years, according to Mark Hazelton, Community Safety Manager for the London Fire Brigade.
'The alarm might look like it is functioning perfectly well, and may even make a nice, loud sound when you press the test button after a decade — but it's the sensors inside that you have to worry about. Their efficiency is compromised by a build up of grease, damp and house dust over time.
'To keep your alarm in top condition, test it weekly, replace the battery every year, and give the inside of your alarm (or the holes on it, if the casing doesn't open) a gentle Hoover every six months to remove dust and debris.'
