Face map your acne to reveal what the position of your blemishes says about YOU | Daily Mail Online

If you ever suffer from pesky breakouts on a certain part of your face, there could be more to it than just greasy skin.
Many alternative practitioners believe that blemishes in particular areas of the skin can actually reflect different problems in your internal health.
FEMAIL spoke to London-based health and wellbeing expert, John Tsagaris, about what acne on different areas of your face reveals - and how you can help solve the problem.
Scroll down for video
John, who is a practitioner of Chinese medicine, believes that acne can be the result of multiple factors ranging from stress, diet, dehydration and allergies - but is primarily caused by hormone activity.
He explained: 'In Chinese medicine, acne is interpreted as the effect of an imbalance of the system that controls the health of the skin, which are the lungs and the kidneys.
'In this model, the skin is affected by overwhelming fluctuations of hormones, which affects sebum production as well as the pH of skin, triggering bacteria growth and clogged pores.'
John insists that the actual skin is not problematic, but rather it reflects the internal imbalances of the body.
FOREHEAD
For those plagued by acne on the forehead area of the face, John recommends looking closely at the diet.
'For those who are prone to acne type conditions across the forehead I would always look at the health of the body as a whole, which of course includes diet, as the two are closely linked,' he explained.
'Eating less processed foods and reducing the amount of fat in your diet can help, as these negatively influence the digestive system.'
This can be alleviated by ensuring you drink plenty of water, and get between seven to nine hours of sleep every night, to give enough time to help flush out any digestive imbalances.
CHEEKS
When looking at acne conditions that seem to target the cheeks, he believes that stress is the main cause, along poor lifestyle choices.
'Acne conditions across the cheeks are problematic and this can be a result of stress to the respiratory system,' he explains.
'Smoking and/or allergies can be a big factor, however I would always look at the client's diet and lifestyle as a whole.'
The potential solutions? Green vegetables and wheatgrass.
He adds: 'Keeping the body more alkaline by increasing the intake of green vegetables and wheatgrass, as well as reducing meat and dairy could help combat this problem area.'
MOUTH AND CHIN
Other common areas where people tend to experience acne and blemishes are the mouth and chin areas.
John explains that this is predominantly due to hormonal changes and stress.
He advises: 'You must allow the body to function properly, without treating it as a machine, and always remember that adequate sleep, relaxation, hydration and eating a balanced healthy diet can help keep skin looking energised and healthy.'
Lack of hydration can lead to kidney imbalance and an outbreak of blemishes on the chin area.
NOSE
The nose is another area that can experience breakouts when the body is subject to a poor diet, and indigestion.
John claims that it is toxins, 'excess hormones, dietary bio products, free radicals', that cause inflammation and acne.
But there are certain dietary improvements that can be made to up the overall quality of the skin...

EAT: Plenty of squash, cucumbers, watermelon, winter melon, celery, carrots, cabbage, beet tops, dandelions, aloe vera, mulberry leaf, carrot tops, lettuce, potatoes, cherries, papaya, pears, persimmons, raspberries, buckwheat, alfalfa sprouts, millet, brown rice, mung beans, lentils, and split peas.
AVOID: Excess sugar, dairy products, chocolate, caffeine, carbonated beverages, nuts, seeds, shellfish, and fatty, fried, and processed foods

