http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3185069/Wife-NAGGED-husband-coma-Farmer-survives-life-threatening-septic-shock-hearing-wife-giving-piece-mind.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Farmer survives septic shock after hearing his wife's nagging at hospital | Daily Mail Online

A farmer survived a six-day brush with death after his wife nagged him out of a coma.
Gill Osgerby gave her husband Will a 'constant telling off', as he lay unconscious in hospital having been diagnosed with severe septic shock.
The  father-of-two, from Sunk Island, East Riding was so seriously ill, medics warned his wife there was nothing more they could do for him.
Mrs Osgerby sat beside her husband watching as his body began to shut down.
Doctors rushed to his side as the 42-year-old began to succumb to multiple organ failure, triggered by the deadly infection which entered his blood stream via a tiny cut.
But instead of despairing, Mrs Osgerby refused to give up.
The 32-year-old gave her husband a piece of her mind, insisting he get better for her and the couple's two sons.
Medics were stunned when, six days later, Mr Osgerby made a miraculous recovery.

She said: 'At one point the doctors told me that there was nothing more that they could do for Will.
'They had him on the highest strength drugs they had available and we just had to stay near him.
'At one point, I gave him a proper talking to, telling him he had to be strong and had to pull through for me and the kids.
'Over the time he was in the ICU, either myself, his mother or his sister were at his side 24 hours a day. I kept talking to him all the way through.'
Her husband credits her telling off with helping him pull through.
'She did give me a good nagging, and I don't think I would be here today if it wasn't for her,' he said.
'While I was in a coma I was very much aware of what my family were saying to me.
'She never lost faith in me, and I genuinely think that her constant support helped me to make it through.'
Doctors were initially baffled by what had happened to Mr Osgerby after he complained of pain, the morning after he had been planting trees.
His condition worsened and over the course of a day's bed rest,  to the point that two ambulances were required to take him to A&E as one crew of paramedics was not enough to transport him safely.
Mrs Osgerby said: 'I heard crashing and banging coming from our room when I was putting our sons down to bed.
'When I was reading Henry, four, a bedtime story, Will came in looking like a zombie.
'When we got to A&E, I stood outside for hours waiting for the doctors to stabilise Will, which they told me was difficult because of the multiple organ failure.'
But while doctors managed to stabilise her husband and told the mother-of-two to go and rest, she was called as soon as she arrived home with devastating news.
'I left the hospital at 4am and was home by 5am,' she recalled. 'At 5.15am one of the nurses from the ICU called me and said that they had taken Will in from A&E and I could visit whenever I wanted.
'When I asked her what that meant, she couldn't tell me over the phone, but that if it was her husband she wouldn't waste any time getting there.
'The doctors had to take Will into surgery as they had to remove a sample of his infected tissue for testing. They thought that it was necrotising fasciitis.
'It was at this time that they put Will on a ventilator. It was shocking to see him so calm about it, but the nurses assured me it was because his body was so exhausted from what he had been through.
'Will was on four different life support machines as his body shut down to breathe for him, keep his heart rate up, monitor his blood pressure and treat his kidney failure.'
Even after he was out of the woods, it took another two weeks before Mr Osgerby was well enough to be weaned off of his ventilator after his body forgot how to breathe due to muscle deterioration.
But the farmer was always aware of the effect his wife had upon him and told her just how much she had done while he was unconscious.
He said: 'Gill was a huge support just being there for me. It certainly proved how strong we are together.
'The nurses were so compassionate in the work that they did for me and Gill. Gill was always there to give me the boost that I needed.'


