
Sugary drinks kill as many as 184,000 adults each year, scientists claim.
Fizzy soft drinks, fruit drinks, energy drinks and sweetened iced teas are causing thousands of deaths and have no health benefits, they said.
And they warned that governments across the world should make it a priority to eliminate such drinks from people’s diets.
Researchers said sugary drinks were implicated in 133,000 diabetes deaths worldwide in one year. Another 45,000 died from cardiovascular disease and 6,450 from cancer. All three diseases have been linked to high sugar consumption.
Scroll down for video
In the UK 1,316 people are said to have died as a result of drinking sweetened drinks. Mexico topped the list, with 30 per cent of adult deaths under 45 attributed to sugary drink consumption, while Japan was lowest with 1 per cent.
Kawther Hashem, a nutritionist from the campaign group Action on Sugar, said: ‘More evidence is showing the alarming impact of sugary drinks on our health, the healthcare service and the economy. It is time these huge profit-making drinks companies took to reformulating their products with less sugar.’
The study looked at sodas, fruit drinks, sports or energy drinks, sweetened iced teas and homemade sugary drinks that contained at least 50 calories per 240ml. A can of Coca-Cola contains 101 calories per 240ml or 139 overall.
Dariush Mozaffarian, from Tufts University, Boston, and a senior author of the study, said the focus should be on cutting the drinks out of diets in order to save lives.
‘It should be a global priority to substantially reduce or eliminate sugar-sweetened beverages from the diet,’ he said.
‘Some population dietary changes, such as increasing fruits and vegetables, can be challenging due to agriculture, costs, storage, and other complexities. This is not complicated.
‘There are no health benefits from sugar-sweetened beverages, and the potential impact of reducing consumption is saving tens of thousands of deaths each year.’
Researchers, whose findings were published in the journal Circulation, calculated sugar consumption by examining 62 dietary surveys involving 611,971 individuals across 51 countries, along with data on national availability of sugar.
Younger adults were more dramatically affected than older people. Gitanjali Singh, who also helped write the study, said: ‘If these young people continue to consume high levels as they age, [this] will be compounded by the effects of ageing, leading to even higher death and disability rates from heart disease and diabetes than we are seeing now.’
Homemade sugary drinks are popular in Latin America and the Caribbean and taken in addition to commercial varieties.
Gitanjali Singh added: ‘Among the 20 countries with the highest estimated sugar-sweetened beverage-related deaths, at least eight were in Latin America and the Caribbean, reflecting the high intakes in that region of the world.’
