http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3147957/Breakthrough-cystic-fibrosis-sufferers-scientists-use-gene-therapy-significantly-improve-function-patients-lungs.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Gene therapy offers breakthrough for cystic fibrosis sufferers | Daily Mail Online

A breakthrough treatment for cystic fibrosis has offered hope for thousands of patients.
A landmark British study showed the gene therapy treatment significantly improved the working of patients’ lungs.
Cystic fibrosis affects 10,000 people in the UK. There is no cure and many will not survive beyond the age of 40.
Scroll down for video
The condition, which is caused by the faulty gene CFTR, leads to recurring chest infections and patients have to undergo physiotherapy up to four times a day to clear their lungs.
Scientists from Oxford University and Imperial College London have developed a treatment which repairs the faulty CFTR gene by adding a healthy gene on top, the Lancet Respiratory Medicine journal reported.
Patients inhale a virus, delivered via a nebuliser, which contains the healthy gene and ensures it reaches the cells in the lungs where it is needed.
Once inside the cells, the healthy genes help them function properly and clear mucus from the lungs. The treatment is still in the early stages of development and has been tested on only a few patients.
Professor Eric Alton, of Imperial College London, said: ‘Patients who received the gene therapy showed a significant, if modest, benefit. The results are encouraging.’
A treatment for cystic fibrosis that repairs faulty genes has offered hope for thousands of patients.
The findings from a landmark British study show it significantly improved the working of patients’ lungs and prevented them succumbing to chest infections.
The condition affects 10,000 patients in the UK and, as there is currently no cure, many will not survive beyond the age of 40.
It leads to recurring chest infections and patients have to undergo physiotherapy on their chests up to four times a day to clear their lungs.
The illness is caused by the faulty gene CFTR which results in their lungs filling with sticky mucus, eventually destroying them.
A team of scientists from Oxford University and Imperial  has developed a treatment which works by repairing this faulty gene by adding a healthy gene on top, to correct it.
Patients inhale a virus, delivered via a nebuliser, which contains the healthy gene and ensures it reaches the cells in the lungs where it is needed.
Once inside the cells, the healthy genes help them function properly and clear mucus from the lungs.
The treatment, referred to as gene therapy, is still in the very early stages of development and has so far only been tested on a few patients.
In the first trial to assess this type of gene treatment, researchers compared its use with standard drugs on 136 patients with cystic fibrosis over the course of a year.
Half were given the gene therapy once a month through a nebuliser and the other half were given a placebo, or dummy drug.
The experiment took place at two hospitals, the Royal Brompton, in London and the Western General Hospital in Edinburgh between June 2012 and 2013.
Its findings, published today in the Lancet Respiratory Medicine journal, show that the lungs of patients who were given the drugs function better than those who received the placebo.
One measurement showed that their average lung function had deteriorated by 0.4 per cent over a year compared to 4 per cent for the other patients.
The researchers said the results were a ‘landmark’ and although the benefits were ‘modest’, they were ‘significant’.
Professor Alton, who specialises in gene therapy and respiratory medicine at Imperial, and is a consultant at the Royal Brompton Hospital, said: ‘Patients who received the gene therapy showed a significant, if modest, benefit in tests of lung function compared with the placebo group; there were no safety concerns.
‘Whilst the effect was inconsistent, with some patients responding better than others, the results are encouraging, laying the groundwork for further trials which we hope could improve the effect.
‘Publication of this trial is a landmark for cystic fibrosis patients and we are particularly grateful to the many patients across the UK who gave their time and effort to participate and make this collaborative venture a success.
‘Our aim is to achieve a step change in the treatment of CF that focuses on the basic defect rather than just addressing the symptoms.
‘It has taken more than 20 years to get where we are now, and there is still some way to go.
‘Eventually we hope gene therapy will push CF patients towards a normal life expectancy and improve their quality of life significantly.’
The researchers plan to carry out a larger trial next year to further test how well the treatment works.
Although there is still no cure for cystic fibrosis, new drugs mean that the average life expectancy has increased from under ten years in the 1960s to 40 or 50 years for babies born today.
Current treatments include enzymes, proteins, or salt solutions which are inhaled through nebulisers to help thin and clear mucus from the lungs.
George Freeman, Minister for Life Sciences, said: ‘Cystic fibrosis can have a devastating effect on patients and families and this is an excellent development for people living with the condition.'