
Nine in ten hospitals are in the red and patients will suffer unless the Government finds more money, a report warns.
The number of trusts in financial crisis has increased four-fold in the last year and experts say the problem is ‘endemic’ across the health service.
A report by the Kings Fund urges the Government to invest more money into the NHS as part of next week’s Budget, warning that patient care will deteriorate otherwise.
Although ministers have promised to stump up an extra £8 billion by 2020, the think-tank says this is the ‘bare minimum’ which the health service needs.
A survey by the think-tank reveals how 89 per cent of hospital trusts predict they will be in financial deficit by the end of the financial year, up from 21 per cent this time last year.
The crisis has partly come about due to the growing demand on hospitals from elderly patients, who are expensive to look after and stay in for a long time.
Due to shortages of social care funds and services, increasing numbers of the elderly are becoming ill at home, through infections, falls or deterioration in long-term conditions.
They are being admitted to A&E and often end up spending several weeks on wards – even when they are fit for discharge – because care is not set up for them at home.
Last Autumn the chief executive of the NHS Simon Stevens said the NHS would need an extra £8 billion of funds by 2020 to meet the demands of the aging population.
Although the Government has promised to provide this money over the course of the next five years, the report warns that it is only the ‘bare minimum’ which it needs.
This will not cover the costs of ensuring the NHS runs properly seven-days a week nor paying for extra nurses and GPs to meet staffing shortages.
Furthermore, the Government is not planning to give the health service any extra money this year and its funding will remain at £110 million.
In a stark warning to the Chancellor George Osborne ahead of next Wednesday’s Emergency Budget, the think-tank says if this remains unchanged, the Government must ‘face the consequences.’
Richard Murray, Director of Policy at The King’s Fund, said: ‘Last year’s deficit among NHS providers was unprecedented, but this year is shaping up to be much worse.
If the Chancellor does not find additional funding in the Budget, the Government must face the consequences – either patient care will suffer or the Department of Health will overspend its budget this year.
‘NHS leaders have signalled a stronger focus on financial control and there is still significant scope to increase productivity in the NHS, but this will not be enough to close the black hole in NHS finances.’
The report is based on a survey of 100 financial directors at hospital and health trusts.
A Department of Health spokesman said: ‘We are investing the additional £8 billion that the NHS has said it needs to implement its own plan for the future.
‘We know that the environment is tough, but the NHS must deliver its side of the plan.’