
More than 14 million patients were forced to wait over a week for a GP appointment in the past year, damning figures reveal.
A quarter of the population now have to wait at least seven days to see their doctor, with the figure as high as two thirds in some areas.
This number has soared by 40 per cent in four years as understaffed surgeries struggle to meet the demands of a growing and ageing population. Some people waited three or four weeks, and many did not receive an appointment at all.


In an effort to improve efficiency, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said last night he was not opposed to charging patients for missed appointments.
This week it emerged that missed appointments cost the NHS up to £1 billion a year. Mr Hunt told the BBC: ‘We have to take personal responsibility for the way we use NHS resources. I don’t actually have a problem in principle with the idea of charging for missed NHS appointments.’

But in spite of the difficulties faced by patients, many GPs are scaling back their opening hours. More than a quarter of surgeries taking part in a flagship Government pilot to open seven days a week have cut extra weekend and evening appointments, claiming patients weren’t showing up. Campaigners say doctors acted too hastily and said patients needed to be given the chance to get used to their GPs suddenly opening seven days a week.
Katherine Murphy, chief executive of the Patients’ Association, said: ‘It is unacceptable for any patient to wait for one week to see a GP.’


Labour health spokesman Andy Burnham blamed the rise on the Government cutting the proportion of NHS funding allocated to GPs, as well as slashing a target that patients should get appointments in 48 hours. He said: ‘These figures are clear proof of how the NHS is sliding backwards under David Cameron. Patients can see that his repeated promises on improving access to GP services are pure spin.’
The findings from the NHS’s GP Patient Survey of 850,000 people, carried out between July 2014 and March this year, show that 11 per cent of patients could not get an appointment at all and a further 15 per cent waited a week or more. This is the equivalent to 14.2 million patients – 26 per cent of the population – and up from 10.7 million who waited at least a week in 2011.
At some surgeries – including the Lynwood Medical Centre in Romford, East London, and the Stonebridge Practice in North-West London – two thirds of patients waited at least a week.


The survey coincided with an investigation by Pulse magazine which showed that surgeries involved in a Government pilot to offer seven-day appointments have already scaled them back, because patients weren’t showing up.
Managers in five out of 20 areas in the first wave of the pilot said they had reduced the number of extra evening or weekend slots due to ‘low use’.
An NHS board paid £19,000 for a temporary doctor to do a week’s work, it emerged yesterday.
The consultant psychiatrist, hired at the last minute from an agency during a desperate staff shortage, cost the health service the equivalent of a £1 million-a-year salary.
NHS Western Isles in Scotland paid the unidentified doctor, a specialist in old-age care, £19,305 including VAT for 40 hours on duty plus the rest of the week on call. It is the equivalent of £483 an hour for the time on duty, meaning the locum earned almost as much in a week as a newly qualified nurse does in a year.
Eben Wilson, of Taxpayer Scotland, said: ‘NHS managers must get on top of their staff planning – there is simply no excuse for such an inefficient use of public money.’
The health board said the psychiatrist was on call for 128 hours, but it is not known if he or she was actually called out. It could not provide details on how much of the £19,000 fee was paid directly to the consultant.
A spokesman said: ‘When a gap in service arises unexpectedly, for example as a result of sickness absence, we have to put cover in place urgently. This can mean that the cost is high, but there is no other option if we are to maintain safe levels of medical cover.
‘This is not an experience peculiar to the Western Isles.’
This includes NHS North Yorkshire, which has abandoned weekend appointments altogether, and NHS Kernow, in Cornwall, where Sunday appointments have been scrapped.
The pilot is part of Mr Cameron’s so-called Challenge Fund, launched last year, whereby surgeries are encouraged to open in the evenings and at weekends.
Practices form local groups – or ‘federations’ – and at least one acts as a hub to offer appointments until 8pm on weekdays or on Saturdays and Sundays.
The Government has invested £10 million into the fund and 2,500 surgeries have signed up, covering 18 million patients.
Roger Goss, of Patient Concern, said that as the scheme had been running for only five months, the public were still getting used to it. ‘Did anyone actually tell patients there were available slots on Saturday and Sunday?’ he said. ‘People won’t believe they can suddenly get an appointment at 11am on a Sunday, for instance, but you need to give them a chance.’
A Department of Health spokesman said: ‘We are committed to improving services so that every patient in England will be able to see a GP seven days a week.
‘Our pilots to extend GP opening times are proving popular and successful – in fact, a quarter of the pilot sites have actually extended their opening hours even further following patient demand.’
Nine in ten hospitals are in the red and patients will suffer unless the Government finds more money, a report warns.
The number of trusts in financial crisis has increased four-fold in the past year, a report by the Kings Fund reveals. The think-tank urges the Government to invest more money into the NHS as part of next week’s Budget.


