http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3184928/It-s-never-late-ripped-Man-hadn-t-exercised-38-overhauls-lifestyle-body-builder.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Great Yarmouth man who hadn't exercised until he was 38 becomes a body builder | Daily Mail Online

A formerly overweight support worker has proven it's never too late to get fit after overhauling his health - and becoming a body builder - at the age of 38.
Nuno Viera from Great Yarmouth  found himself putting on unnecessary weight and became depressed after downing over four litres of coke a day, making him unfit, miserable and fat.
At his heaviest, Nuno tipped the scales at 15st and suffered with depression and low self-esteem.
Speaking about his former lifestyle, he told FEMAIL: 'My lifestyle was crazy. I’d eat all sorts of fast food, crisps, chocolate and on top of this I was constantly drinking Coca Cola, which I found myself addicted to.
'I would not think about exercising as it was out of my comfort zone and didn't fit in with my lifestyle.
'I didn't have a care in the world, as I was enjoying my diet and not thinking about the consequences it was having on my health.'
Once he reached 37, Nuno decided it was time to make a change and turned to bodybuilding champion and fitness expert, Rob Reinaldo, for advice.
He began implementing a lot of cardio and was doing 60 minutes of cardio six days a week before consuming any food.

Nuno noticed the weight falling off. Instead of coke, he was now drinking around 2-3 litres of water a day along with plenty of green tea.
'I found it hard  switching to water at first but then I was fine,' he said. 'Once I sweat in the gym from the cardio, I found my body craving water and didn’t even think about drinking anything fizzy.'
Nuno adopted a high protein, low carb diet to complement his fitness regime.
Once he started to see the weight fall off he then introduced weight lifting into his regime, which helped him develop some serious muscle  and definition.
He was putting away over 3,000 calories a day and was able to lose weight due to his new training regime.
As a result of his new regime, Nuno became a fitness champion and even decided to open his very own gym, Body Generation Fitness Gym in Great Yarmouth.
He has more competitions planned, which keeps him motivated and he wants to 'win more and more trophies'.
His words of wisdom? 'Never quit and always stay positive, as everything is achievable once your mind is set.'
This will not always stay the same, as I do not want to get board of a certain food type. Also my macro-nutrients may vary depending on my goals at the time. A typical day will be;
• 40grams oats/3 scrambled eggs/peanut butter/Serving of Thermoxen
• Chicken Breast, brown rice and vegetables
• Brown Rice, turkey and salad
• Fish, sweet potatoes and serving of Thermoxen
• Protein and a banana after a workout
• Lean beef with green vegetables and a serving of Thermoxen
• Protein shake before bed
DRINKS: 2-3 liters of water, coffee in the morning, herbal teas
