http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/food/article-3144215/How-cook-English-breakfast-HALF-calories.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Grease-less Spoon café's guide to cooking a full English breakfast with HALF the calories | Daily Mail Online

For one day only, London's newest pop up restaurant is promising to serve a full English breakfast which contains only half the calories of a normal fry up.
The healthy meal with a twist will be on offer on 6 July at the Grease-less Spoon café, which uses only steam to cook the traditional breakfast ingredients.
The steamed version contains just 533 calories, a whopping difference from a fried full English which typically has 1,035 calories.
The full English is one of the nation's favourite breakfasts, but the often calorie-laden, oily treat has us feeling more than a little bit guilty after indulging.
However, those watching their waistlines can still indulge in this healthier version, which features a slow-cooked egg, homemade black pudding, streaky bacon, espresso mushrooms, confit tomatoes, baked beans and sourdough toast, all of which have been cooked without any oil or fat.
The cafe is the brainchild of Miele's executive chef, Sven-Hanson Britt who created the breakfast  without using any oil or fat.
He told FEMAIL: 'I've thoroughly enjoyed creating a healthy twist on the great British fry-up.
'Through cooking with steam and carefully selecting ingredients we have cut the calories, whilst also creating a delicious, tasty and healthy dish without compromising on flavour.
'The difference between the two breakfasts is very noticeable. We are pleased to have created a delicious breakfast without the guilt.'
Diners will also be able to tuck into fresh brioche and vienoisserie, homemade vanilla yogurts with granola and summer fruits, and eggs and soldiers, all of which have also been cooked with steam.
Fresh Brioche and Vienoisserie
Homemade Vanilla Yoghurts with Granola and Summer Fruits
Steamed Eggs and Soldiers
The Full English
Slow cooked egg, homemade black pudding, streaky bacon, espresso mushrooms, confit tomatoes, baked beans and sourdough toast.
Mieles' pop-up Grease-less Spoon is only open for one day on the 6th July at Ice Tank, 7 Grape Street, London, WC2H with two eating slots available: 12.15pm and 2.15pm.
The steamed breakfast menu was created from scratch, with Sven even curing his own bacon and growing 'espresso' mushrooms on coffee compost.
'I am delighted to be involved with Miele's Grease-less Spoon Cafe, it has been a lot of fun creating the menu and I am looking forward to getting feedback from the public on the grease-less "fry-up".
'I am extremely passionate about use fresh and local ingredients and the Miele Steam Ovens really enhance the flavours and textures of seasonal produce, cooking it to perfection,' he continued.
On arrival diners will be served hot coffee and a pastry whilst they decide on their choices which includes a perfect four-minute boiled egg and home cured bacon along with other classic British breakfast ingredients.


Fried breakfast
1 x fried egg: 196 calories
1 slice of fried bacon: 45 calories
1 fried sausage: 206 calories
1 slice of fried bread: 142 calories
Half tin of beans: 140 calories
1x portion of fried mushrooms: 156 calories
1 slice of fried black pudding: 150 calories
Total: 1,035Kal
Steamed breakfast
1 x steamed egg: 72 calories
1 slice of homemade smoked and steamed Bacon: 35 calories
1 steamed sausage: 120 calories
1 slice of toasted sour dough: 92 calories
1 portion of homemade beans: 90 calories
1 portion of mushrooms: 69 calories
1 slice of Homemade black pudding: 75 calories
Total: 553Kal

Bacon Cure
Ingredients: 4 x pork belly with skin on; 900g Maldon salt; 100g pink salt; 400g Demerara sugar; eight bay leaves; eight teaspoons coriander seeds; eight teaspoons black peppercorns; four teaspoons juniper seeds; four teaspoons caraway seeds; eight teaspoons fennel seeds‑; four pieces pieces star anise
Method: Crush or blitz all of the herbs and spices together, then add the salts and sugar. Season every part of the pork belly and rub the spice mix in. Stack the bellies up and refrigerate for seven days, if the bellies are thicker (2.5 inches) then eight to nine days are more suitable. Another way of doing this is to vacuum pack each belly with the cure mixture. After curing, remove the pork and brush off the cure (do not wash). Either hang the bellies with string in a cool dark place or lay on a cooling rack on a tray and leave in the fridge to ­ rm up and dry out for 1-3 weeks (If using the cooling rack method, turn the belly regularly and change the racks and trays to keep everything clean and dry). To cook, remove the skin and lay the bacon on a new cooling rack and steam in the oven for 25-30 minutes. To serve, slice thinly and eat hot.
Black Pudding
Ingredients: 1 litre pigs blood; 200g milk; 250g lardon, diced finely; three large onions, diced finely and sweated; 250g rolled oats, toasted; one cooking apple, diced finel; fine salt; black pepper; two teaspoonscaraway seeds, ground; splash of Worcestershire sauce‑
Method: Cook the onions in a little butter and then leave to cool. Put all the other ingredients into a bowl and mix everything together and test for seasoning. Place in a cling ­ lm-lined baking tray and cover. Steam the mixture on 80ºC for 20-25 minutes until set, stirring occasionally at the beginning. Portion into individual squares. Before serving, reheat in the oven on roast for a couple of minutes.
Baked Beans
Ingredients: 500g dried coco beans; two tins ageolet beans, drained; one tin butter beans, drained; two sprigs of thyme; one sprig of rosemary; one bay leaf; two tins chopped tomatoes; half a bottle white wine; four cloves garlic; two large onions; two large carrots; sherry vinegar; 350g cherry tomatoes; 500ml chicken stock; two bunches of chives; bacon skin
Method: Soak the dried coco beans for 24 hours. Dice the onions, carrots, garlic ­ nely and sweat in a splash of olive oil. Add the herbs and soaked beans to the pan. Then add the wine and reduce until the alcohol has cooked off. Pour in the chicken stock, tinned tomatoes, bacon skin, a few splashes of sherry vinegar and simmer gently until the beans are tender. Finish by adding in all the other beans and halved cherry tomatoes. To give the beans extra flavour, leave in the fridge overnight before serving.


