HALF of women won't reveal their natural hair colour to partners | Daily Mail Online

More than half of women have never let their partners see their natural hair colour, according to a new survey.
Fifty-four per cent of females said their lovers had no idea how they looked au naturel because they were constantly dyeing their mane to look better or counter the effects of ageing.
They cited greys as a major concern, with 74 per cent secretly plucking the offending hairs in between visits to the salon.
Even seemingly-perfect X Factor judge Cheryl Fernandez-Versini, 32, previously admitted to immediately ripping out the first grey hair she found.
'It’s fine, I've accepted it. But I plucked it out immediately,' she added.
The recent poll of 1,000 adults in the UK, carried out by hair transplant firm Crown Clinic, found that the big 'hair cover-up' extends to men too.
Fifty-two per cent of male respondents said they have or would secretly pluck grey hairs.
And 32 per cent of men said they have or would disguise their baldness by shaving their head or changing their hairstyle.
David Beckham was praised as a top grooming inspiration for men, having sported various hair colours over the years.
Most recently the father-of-four, who turned 40 in May, reportedly dyed his beard to make him appear younger.

Hair transplant surgeon Asim Shahmalak from Crown Clinic pointed out that celebrities, in particular, are under huge pressure to look good.
He said: 'Their hair is their livelihood - and if it starts going grey or falling out that livelihood is threatened.
'That is why you see very few leading female stars who dare to show their true hair colour if they are going grey.
'Similarly, male stars go to extraordinary lengths to cover their baldness with hair transplants, hair weaves and clever changes of style.
'Thankfully more male stars are being honest and going public following transplants. Men admire stars like Wayne Rooney and Robbie Williams for being so open.'
Crown Clinic has apparently seen a 25 per cent rise in hair transplant bookings in the last three years thanks to the ‘Rooney effect’. The England captain famously had the procedure, prompting a whole host of men to follow suit.
Dr Shahmalak’s celebrity clients include Embarrassing Bodies presenter Christian Jessen and the model Calum Best.
Is your hair starting to show a smattering of greys? INDIA STURGIS has the best temporary solutions...
BLENDING PEN
Josh Wood, £12.50, marksandspencer.com
These handy pens look like bingo markers and add a swipe of non-permanent hair colour at the root to blend in regrowth. Paint the gel on to wet or dry hair through the brush nib and the colour should last up to three washes. Easy to use and affordable. Available in seven shades, including red.
POWDER SPRAY
Hair powder, £28 for 125g, bumbleandbumble.co.uk
A coloured powder spray that masks greys and washes straight out. Comes in white, blonde, brown and black. Blitz your head with it like dry shampoo, holding the can about 10in from scalp. Shampoo out before bed or you might stain your pillow.
CLIP IN
Jody quick fix clip-in patch, £99.99, pauls-hair-world.co.uk
A clip-in hairpiece can disguise greys and thinning hair on the top of your head around the parting. Clip into your hair then blend your own locks around it with your fingers to hide the join (this might need some practice). It's made from 100 per cent human hair and lasts for six months of daily use.
COLOUR COMB
Irene Gari cover-grey comb, £3.79, 123hairandbeauty.co.uk
This is a thin comb with blocks of waxy colour stuck to either side. Dunk in warm water then run it through your hair to apply temporary colour and hide greys. Washes out after a few rinses. Available in medium brown, dark brown and black (sorry, blondes).
BLACK TEA
Bathing hair in stewed black tea is a quick DIY fix for darker heads. Boil two teaspoons of black tea leaves in water for five minutes. Allow to cool then apply all over your hair, massaging it through roots and tips. Rinse out with cold water after half an hour. Colour washes out after a few shampoos.
HAIR MASCARA
Hair mascara, £2.99, amazon.co.uk
Apply this like mascara to small sections of hair. It’s a semi-permanent lotion made using all-natural herbal colour, free from nasties such as peroxide or ammonia. Colour should last up to two weeks and is available in black, brown or blonde. Quite fiddly. You’ll need a steady hand to ensure an even spread.
SHAMPOO
MelanPlus shampoo, £27, onlyhairloss.com
An anti-grey shampoo that slows the influx of silver wisps by boosting melanin in the hair. It also contains emu oil for added moisture that is high in omega-3 to help keep hair looking healthy. Wash in and leave for five minutes before rinsing off.
COLOUR PALETTE
Color Wow root cover up, £29, net-a-porter.com
Finely milled powder in a smart compact. Brush on at the root with one of the two different-sized brushes (included) to conceal grey regrowth. Five shades from platinum blonde to brown and black (but no red). It shampoos out.
ROOT TOUCH UP
Clairol Nice ‘n Easy root touch up, £4.28, Boots
This permanent colour will work even on coarse, resilient grey hairs and there are 14 shades to choose from, including red. It includes a thin brush so you can be more accurate as you dab it on.
VEGETABLE DYE
Naturtint, £10.49, naturesdream.co.uk
Semi-permanent vegetable dyes are a safe and kind way to colour hair at home, containing no ammonia or peroxide. With a total of 32 colours, it fades after about eight washes.




