
Near blinded, with swollen and red eyes, Lauren Nathan looked as though she had been beaten up. Her throat was red raw and sore and she was wheezing like a 20-a-day smoker.
'I called work to say I was ill and couldn't come in. Initially they were sympathetic, but then I explained that I had hay fever, and sympathy turned to irritated surprise.'
Historically, hay fever has been a bit of a joke among some, but this summer, with record numbers of people being felled by an epidemic of epic proportions, it has suddenly developed a very serious side.
Scroll down for video
Offices are packed with sneezing (and annoying) employees and schools with snivelling children.
Sufferers who have previously been able to keep the condition under control with a daily antihistamine are finding themselves completely overwhelmed. It's even affecting marriages, with 1.6 million couples forced to sleep apart, as those afflicted keep their partners awake with constant sneezing.
Hay fever — or allergic rhinitis — occurs when the body's natural defence cells overreact to an allergen in the air. In this case, microscopic grains discharged from the male part of a flower, and carried, via the wind, to fertilise female flowers.
For certain people, these pollen grains are identified as a threat by their immune cells, and they produce an antibody called immunoglobulin E to attack them.
This in turn triggers the release of the chemical histamine into the bloodstream, causing symptoms such as a blocked and runny nose, itchy eyes, wheezing and even wheals on the skin from contact with grass. This year, not only are symptoms getting worse, but more and more of us are being affected. It's estimated that the number of sufferers will reach 20 million this summer — up five million from last year.
'New cases used to be children or young people,' says consultant immunologist, Professor Edward Kaminski at the Nuffield Health Hospital in Plymouth.
'But we currently are seeing increasing numbers of middle-aged people stumbling into the clinics with streaming eyes and noses, for the first time. Even 70-year-olds are getting hay fever for the first time.'
It's thought that one in five of the population is suffering. But numbers are rising so rapidly, that Professor Kaminski estimates that by 2060 up to 70 per cent of us will be wheezing through the summer.
So why has this year seen a hay fever apocalypse? Experts cite a 'perfect storm' of a mild winter followed by a warm spring and dry, sunny summer, which has been ideal for optimum pollen production.
Flowers ripen and release pollen into the air,' explains Dr Peter Burt, aerobiologist at the University of Greenwich. 'What they like is warmth and a bit of rain. We had a mild early spring. This means that the flowering season, especially for trees, was early.'
Climate change is also playing a part: rising global temperatures mean the pollen season is getting longer. Simple maths dictates that more weeks with that deadly flower dust in the air equals prolonged exposure to more people — and, in turn, more victims.
This gloomy news comes as no surprise to Eileen Teo, 36, a former theatre nurse who lives in Lichfield, Staffordshire, with her husband Chen, an IT manager, son Kieran, seven, and daughter Caitlin, six.
'When we moved out of London seven years ago I instantly developed hay fever, with such prolonged and vigorous sneezing fits that I was exhausted.' But this year has taken her suffering to new levels.
'When the season started, I had no sleep for a fortnight, so violent was my sneezing. In-between sneezes my nose streamed.
'The lining of my nostrils became so damaged that I started to have nose bleeds. In the mornings my eyes have been so glued together that I've lost most of my eyelashes from rubbing and tugging at them.
'We live in a beautiful part of the country, surrounded by fields and woods, but I am confined inside with my son, who also has hay fever, watching my husband play outside with my daughter.'
For those with asthma, the hay fever season isn't just difficult, it can be downright dangerous. Around 1,500 people die every year from asthma attacks — many are thought to be triggered by a sudden exposure to pollen.

Tara Burt, 37, a security officer living in Plymouth with her three children, was hospitalised for the first time in her life this year. 'It happened right at the beginning of the hay fever season, which always makes my asthma worse.
'I was at home and suddenly found it hard to breathe. I've never had a full-blown asthma attack or gone anywhere near a hospital, as I'm very careful to keep on top of my medication.
'But the medicine didn't seem to be working. I got myself to the local hospital who took one look at me and rushed me onto a nebuliser.'
Four weeks later the same thing happened and last weekend one of her eyes swelled completely shut.
'I found myself at the GP again, looking as though I had black eyes, with both of them streaming away. I was given steroids and my asthma medication was updated.'
Hay fever remedies, known as antihistamines, work by blocking the action of histamine in the blood stream. There are also nasal sprays, creams and gels which are dabbed around the nose to stop pollen getting into the nasal passage.
Some sufferers swear by trusty old Vaseline to do the trick, too. In extreme cases, steroid injections and sprays are used.
Yet Beverley Adams-Groom of the National Pollen and Aerobiology Research Unit, at the University of Worcester, argues that nature is not entirely to blame for our suffering.
She says the annual total pollen count — a measurement of the amount of pollen per metre of air squared — has actually decreased over recent years.
'Our pollen records for Worcester (over 20 years) and London (54 years) show that the pollen levels are not increasing and may even be decreasing,' she says. She argues that rising pollution is as much to blame as pollen.
'Ozone and diesel exhaust particles enhance the allergic inflammatory resp-onse in the respiratory system and decrease the threshold at which pollen will affect people.'
Students with hay fever are 40 per cent more likely to get a lower grade in their summer exams than they did in their mocks.
This makes sense to Lauren Nathan, 44. She lives in London — hardly renowned for its air quality — with husband, David, 52, an accountant, and two daughters aged 20 and 18.
As well as having to take time off work she has found that her overall quality of life has been affected. 'My hay fever started at the beginning of May when we returned from a holiday,' she says, describing how her days began at 4.30am as she was jolted awake by the struggle to breathe, an agonisingly sore throat and flowing nose and itchy eyes.
'I work in retail, but how can I advise customers or present a friendly demeanour when I can't see properly and my nose is red raw and streaming? I can't even conceal it with make-up.'
Her social life has also suffered. Lauren had to duck out of a friend's barbecue last week. 'She organised an evening do and for me that's the worst time of day. I know she was very surprised that I couldn't attend.'
A further contributing factor to why so many are developing hay fever, is the fact that we are simply too clean nowadays. Our sealed clean houses, air-conditioned cars and obsession with dirt could be contributing to our current state.
'The hygiene hypothesis basically means that we don't have enough exposure to bacteria as babies and children,' explains Andrew Williams, a nurse consultant and allergy specialist at Guys and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust.
'A good example is the Berlin Wall,' he says. 'Before 1989, West Germany had higher rates of asthma and allergy in children. After the wall came down and standards of living became more equal, asthma and allergy rates in the East gradually equalled those in the West.'
Simply put, it's thought that children need to roll around in mud to build up their immune systems. Otherwise, when they are exposed to a foreign body such as pollen, there is an inappropriate response.
Professor Kaminski agrees in principle with the hygiene hypothesis. He, and many other experts believe much of the problem is down to gut flora, the bacteria in our digestive systems, which is vital for maintaining the immune system, and which we are only just starting to understand.
'Thousands of years ago primitive man was living with many parasites and bacteria, particularly in the gut. Over time, this gut microflora affected the development of our immunesystem and created a balance.' But, he says, our clean living and vaccinations are changing gut flora and upsetting the delicate balance.
This theory has prompted many sufferers to rethink their medication during hay fever season, and many are already turning to probiotics to rebalance good bacteria in the stomach and therefore give their immune system a boost.
'I've been taking tablets called Bio-Kult,' says Lauren. 'To my astonishment, they've made a distinct difference over a few weeks. It's not an overnight solution, like an antihistamine, but it is working.'
After this year's onslaught, many will be signing up for immunotherapy — one of the most effective defences against further attacks, according to Andrew Williams.
'We administer doses of pollen in the form of injections, drops or tablets over weeks or months. This gradually accustoms the immune system to it, with the aim of enjoying hay fever-free summers. For most people there is a significant improvement in the first year.'
For the moment, however, there may be many more sniffle-filled weeks ahead. Pollen counts are predicted to remain consistently high. Tissues out, windows closed — and bring on winter.