
People watching their weight have long been wary of 'drinking' their calories - and  now a new infographic has confirmed their suspicions.
The illustration demonstrates how fattening cocktails really are by comparing their caloric content with our favourite snacks.
Drinkers may find it sobering to discover that a Long Island Ice Tea is the equivalent to eating two sausage rolls, a margarita contains the same calories as a roast dinner and a zombie could be swapped for a bacon sandwich.
The graphic was created by party organisers Eventa who investigated the damaging amount of calories in alcoholic cocktails.
At 720 calories a glass, a Long Island Iced Tea topped the calorie charts.
Eventa revealed that just one glass of the boozy mix of  tequila, vodka, white rum, triple sec, gin, cola and lemon equates to two Gregg’s sausage rolls.
Two glasses hold almost 60 per cent of a man’s recommended daily calorie intake, and over 70 per cent of a women’s.
A margarita contains 680 calories a glass; equivalent to a roast dinner of beef, peas, carrots, roast potatoes and Yorkshire puddings.
Calorie count will vary depending on how the drink is served, as margaritas often come in ‘fishbowls’ or pitchers, which make the figure higher.
The party planners revealed that pre-made margarita mixes are crammed with sugar too; however by making it from scratch you can cut the calories by half.
Sex on the Beach and Zombie cocktails, have high figures due to the amount of fruit juice and the tall glasses they're usually served in.
To cut the calorie content, they advice choosins smaller glasses and fresh juices over those from concentrate.
Unsurprisingly, creamy cocktails are full of calories. A pina colada contains the equivalent to a microwaveable lasagna, while a White Russian equals a medium portion of onion rings.
By swapping the cream for low/no fat milk, or flavoured kinds, like almond, to cut this number down.
Unsurprisingly, gin and tonics contain far fewer calories, but only if made with slim line tonic. Forgetting to order diet adds an extra 100 calories.
A rum and Coke is the lowest calorie drink you can have from their selection, if made with diet cola.
