How being a nation of pill poppers is making us ill | Daily Mail Online

Dave Fisher will never forget the day he watched his mother die in agony from a cardiac arrest in a hospital bed.
Nor will he forgive the doctors who prescribed the combination of two drugs he believes killed her in just 28 minutes as her family could only watch in horror.
‘She was very distressed and gasping for breath,’ recalls the marine surveyor. ‘It was horrendous.’
In April 2010, Joan Fisher, an 83-year-old former nurse, was taken to hospital after suffering chest pains.
She’d initially been rushed by ambulance to Hull Royal Infirmary, but because of a bed shortage was transferred that evening to nearby Castle Hill Hospital.
Unsettled by the late evening transfer, Mrs Fisher became increasingly anxious.
Worse, she was somehow separated from her regular medication — drugs for conditions including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, osteoporosis, angina, raised cholesterol, high blood pressure and heart failure.
So at Castle Hill, the missing medication was reordered from the hospital’s own stocks — but a registrar also decided to add bisoprolol to the list.
Bisoprolol, like the diltiazem Mrs Fisher was already taking, is used to treat high blood pressure and chest pain.
But as the hospital trust finally admitted more than two years after Mrs Fisher’s death, the drugs should be prescribed together only in very specific circumstances and under expert supervision.
Used in combination, they can slow the heart and lower blood pressure, leading to heart failure.
The hospital trust insisted that Mrs Fisher’s death so soon after she’d been given the drugs meant it was ‘relatively unlikely’ they’d killed her.
But an independent expert told an inquest into her death that the combination had ‘played a significant part’ in her cardiac arrest.
Her story graphically illustrates a growing concern about ‘polypharmacy’ — where patients are prescribed handfuls of drugs, even though, in many cases, doctors have little idea how these drugs might interact or the effect on patients’ health.
Polypharmacy has long been an issue in the care of the elderly. But younger people, too, are now being affected, thanks to an astonishing increase in the number of drugs we are taking.
This includes statins. These cholesterol-lowering drugs are now Britain’s number one medication, with prescriptions for them increasing by 266 per cent in the ten years from 2002, according to official figures.
Last year 60 million prescriptions were written for two brands, simvastatin and atorvastatin, alone.
But statins are just the tip of the iceberg.
At the heart of the problem is a staggering fact that affects us all: in the past 13 years, the number of prescriptions issued in the UK has virtually doubled, to 1.24 billion a year.
This unprecedented boom can’t be put down simply to the fact that there are more of us.
The population rose by 10 per cent between 2000 and 2013; over the same period prescriptions soared by 82 per cent.
Nor is it solely because more of us are living longer. The reality, as a study published in April confirmed, is that, on average, each of us is taking far more drugs than before.
Researchers from Dundee University Medical Research Institute looked at the prescriptions history of more than 300,000 adults in Tayside and found that the proportion taking five or more medications had doubled.
Furthermore, the combination of medicines people were prescribed were ‘increasingly complex and potentially harmful’, they said.
And because most evidence of the effectiveness and safety of drugs came from trials which didn’t include people with a number of conditions, too little was understood about possible interactions.
It’s a similar picture for the rest of the UK, with previous research by the King’s Fund showing the number of patients on ten or more drugs trebled between 1995 and 2010.
The healthcare think-tank has also warned that unless patients’ drugs are reviewed regularly, there is ‘a risk that treatment may be ineffective at best and harmful at worst’.
Indeed while unexpected death, such as Mrs Fisher’s, is a rare consequence of drug interactions, many patients have a low quality of life thanks to the aches and pains caused by polypharmacy.
Worse, these patients could find themselves on yet more drugs as doctors write prescriptions to deal with the resulting symptoms, a phenomenon known as the ‘therapeutic cascade’, explains Tony Avery, professor of general practice at Nottingham University, an expert in polypharmacy.
So why are so many more of us being prescribed ever more drugs?
In her book The Patient Paradox, Glasgow GP Margaret McCartney highlighted the problem of ‘sexed-up medicine’ and the ‘determination of healthcare professionals to bring healthy people into surgeries and clinics, and turn them into patients’. Put simply, more of us are being treated as if we are ill.
The elderly are most at risk of being over-medicalised in this way.
Earlier this year researchers at the University of Exeter Medical School found there had been ‘a dramatic increase in the medicalisation of the oldest old’ — those aged 85 or older, whose numbers are rising.
The proportion being diagnosed with three or more conditions rose from 32.2 to 55.1 per cent.
But even among those aged 65 to 84, the proportion rose from 27.1 to 35.1 per cent.
The researchers also found large increases in conditions including diabetes, chronic kidney disease, osteoarthritis and high blood pressure.
And the middle-aged are also needlessly being turned into patients.
Take the example of statins. The UK has the highest prescribing rate for them in Europe, according to a 2013 report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development: here, 13 per cent of the population were taking the drugs, compared to just 7 per cent in Germany.
Furthermore, we swallowed 40 per cent more of them than the average person in Europe.
And that’s set to increase under new guidelines issued by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), which wants to see millions more of us put on the controversial drugs.
Last June, leading doctors accused NICE of trying to medicalise ‘five million healthy individuals’, pointing out that the supporting evidence had come ‘almost entirely from pharmaceutical company funded studies’.
NICE denies many people are being given drugs unnecessarily. But it’s not just cholesterol drugs the middle-aged can now find themselves taking; they can also be borderline candidates for other drugs for conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, arthritis, chronic pain and depression.
Since NICE was founded in 1999, doctors have received a steady flow of guidance on which drugs have been shown to be effective in a range of conditions.
As Professor Nina Barnett, a consultant pharmacist at Northwick Park Hospital, London, explains, this has been ‘a double-edged sword’.
‘We are able to offer people treatments where the benefits outweigh the risks, because we actually have evidence from experts,’ she says.
‘The flip side is that more medicines are being prescribed and we have a bigger issue with polypharmacy.
‘And what do you do if you are following guidance to help people to manage high blood pressure, and they also have diabetes, osteoarthritis and a number of other conditions? Do you take all the pieces of guidance, follow each one and hope that it all works out?’
Doctors are culturally conditioned to prescribe drugs, not to take patients off them, adds Professor Avery, the prescribing lead for the Royal College of General Practitioners. From medical school onwards, ‘there is very little about stopping medicines’.
What’s more, GPs will think twice before taking a patient off a drug if doing so flies in the face of NICE guidance. Take something as simple as aspirin.
‘You’ve got an elderly patient who’s been on aspirin for years and you’re wondering whether to stop it, perhaps because they’re getting a bit anaemic and it could be causing minor stomach bleeds,’ says Professor Avery.
The average number of pills prescribed to each person in the UK in 2013
‘If you continue with the aspirin, you might have to prescribe another drug to stop them having this minor bleed. Or might they be better off without it?’
That, he says, is the sort of decision that feels ‘scary’ as a GP.
‘You’ve withdrawn a drug for the best of intentions, but what if they have a stroke tomorrow?’
Professor Avery also believes ‘health economics’ is why more patients are being put on medication.
As drug patents expire and cheaper, generic versions become available, so there is an increased tendency to prescribe ‘just in case’.
Once again, statins are a case in point. When the patent on Merck’s simvastatin expired in 2004, the cost fell dramatically — it is now the most prescribed medication in the UK.
So where does this leave patients?
For doctors, ‘the only way to manage that safely is to keep a dialogue with your patient and monitor the medications’, says Professor Barnett.
For patients, ‘the way to keep yourself safe and to get the best out of the medications you are on is to have a blood test every six months.
‘And when you see your doctor it’s important to say: “These are the things in my life I want to be able to do, and I want you to help me get the best out of my medicines”.’
Dr McCartney adds: ‘If a drug has a one in 100 chance of preventing a heart attack, but makes you feel sick every day, you might quite reasonably decide to give it a miss.’
