How to reduce redness and pain of sunburn | Daily Mail Online


Sunburnt skin is never pretty, but worryingly, it can be a sign of significant skin damage, which raises the risk of cancer.
Here, Dr Justine Hextall, a consultant dermatologist with Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Trust, explains how to reduce redness and pain.
Get out of the sun NOW
It may sound obvious, but it's one of the best ways to minimise the immediate effects of sun damage and prevent long-term scarring.
'The minute your skin becomes pink, feels hot to the touch and gets slightly firmer or swollen, get out of sun', says Dr Hextall. 'Don't assume that reapplying sun cream will protect you.'
How to cool your skin
Heat activates the inflammatory response, which leads to swelling, pain and makes your skin look burnt.
Heat also kills melanocytes, the cells that produce melanin, which gives skin its pigment; this leads to permanent loss of colour and paler patches.
Cooling the skin switches off these inflammatory mechanisms to reduce damage that may result in scarring.
'Bathe skin gently for 20 minutes in cool water,' says Dr Hextall.
Don't use soap - instead, try a product such as Dermol 600 Bath Emollient (available at Lloyds Pharmacies), which contains an antiseptic.
'Adding oats into your bath may also help because they contain natural chemicals that help to soothe the skin,' says Dr Hextall.
If you can't shower, or need to cool the burn further, apply a flannel soaked in cold water to the area until it feels cool to the touch.
Soothe with green tea
The biggest worry from a sunburn is damage to your DNA because ultraviolet rays release harmful molecules (free radicals) into the skin, which increase the chance of cells mutating and can lead to cancer.
Dr Hextall recommends a green tea compress.
'Green tea contains antioxidants that target free radicals, so in theory may mitigate against the damage.'
Place four or five teabags in a bowl and add boiling water.
Once it's steeped into a strong tea, put this in the fridge for half an hour.
Then, soak a cloth in it and place on sunburn for 30 minutes.
Use the right moisturisers
Sunburnt skin is dehydrated, so you need to apply moisturiser.
This acts as a barrier against water loss; inflamed skin loses water as the skin barrier is disrupted.
'Don't apply Vaseline or petroleum based gel. These trap heat in the skin, so will make it worse,' says Dr Hextall.
She suggests a liberal layer of unperfumed cream with ingredients such as glycerine, camomile or aloe vera, which can reduce inflammation.
Try Xeracalm AD or Cetraben creams (available from Boots).
You could also try a steroid cream such as hydrocortisone, but don't apply this to your face and only use it for a few days. If you have blistered skin with open wounds, seek medical help.
...and stay hydrated
After treating the area, put on loose, cotton clothes to avoid irritation.
And drink lots of water. Excessive water loss can lead to dehydration, headaches and sickness.
