

Stress makes us abandon our commitments to healthy eating, scientists have found.
It seems when the going gets tough, we are more likely to comfort ourselves with a pastry rather than a piece of fruit.
Researchers at the University of Zurich put people watching their weight under stress: immersing their hand in ice water for three minutes.
They were then presented with a choice of one unhealthy snacks such as cake or a doughnut and a less tasty snacks including a banana or broccoli.
The subjects were recommended to eat the healthier item, but were told they were free to choose either.
The scientists found that the 29 individuals who underwent the stressful ice bath treatment, considered ‘taste’ more important than ‘health’ when it came to their snack, and indulged in the unhealthy option.
Brain scans also found that the stressed participants showed patterns associated with loss of self-control in the brain.
The investigators say that their study indicates that even moderate levels of stress can impair self-control.
Todd Hare, one of the authors said: ‘This is important because moderate stressors are more common than extreme events and will thus influence self-control choices more frequently and for a larger portion of the population.’
He added: ‘One interesting avenue for future research will be to determine whether some of the factors shown to protect against structural brain changes following severe stress--such as exercise and social support--can also buffer the effects of moderate stress on decision making.’
The authors note that in both humans and rats, the edge can be taken off stress by indulging in ‘rewarding stimuli’.
They also note that a common theme of stress research is that when stressed individuals focus on the here and now rather than future goals.
The research is published in Neuron.
Previous research by the University of Konstanz, in Germany which tested how much ice cream individuals ate when they suffered a social rejection found that not all stressed people indulge.
The previous study classified people into ‘skippers’ who avoid food when stressed and ‘munchers’ who indulged.
However, when faced by a positive experience, the ‘munchers’ ate less and the ‘skippers’ ate more.
