How your baby's GAZE could predict behavioural problems | Daily Mail Online

A newborn baby's gaze may offer clues as to whether or not they will suffer behavioural problems as a child, scientists have revealed.
The looking patterns of a baby in their first few days of life have been found to indicate hyperactivity and troubled relationships with other children.
Scientists from Birkbeck University of London, London Metropolitan University and the University of Padua in Italy, found a baby's visual attention to objects is a key determinant.
Senior author, Dr Angelica Ronald, from Birkbeck University of London, said: 'We've found for the first time that there's a significant link between the way in which newborn babies look at images and their later temperament and behaviours in childhood, such as hyperactivity.'
She said because the observations were made in babies that had only just been born, 'the influences that made these newborns differ between each other in their visual attention style are likely to be present at birth'.

'This rules out the environment after birth, and leaves either genetic predispositions or influences from the environment the baby experiences in the womb,' Dr Ronald said.
'Spending relatively longer looking at each individual stimulus as a newborn was associated with having fewer behaviour problems and fewer impulsive and overactive behaviours in middle childhood.'
The Italian team, led by Professor Teresa Farroni, studied the visual attention of 180 newborn babies, between 2004 and 2012, in a maternity ward at a hospital in Monfalcone, north Italy.
The babies, who were all aged between one and four days old, were shown a series of images, while researchers measured the duration of their attention - or dwell time - was measured.
To follow up, families of 80 of the children were then contacted when their children were three to 10 years old.
Parents were asked to rate their children's temperament and behaviour using standard psychological questionnaires.
Researchers focused on three major aspects of temperament and behaviour.
First, they examined 'effortful control', which is the ability to regulate emotions.
Poor effortful control has been linked with greater impulsivity and hyperactivity, and is thought to be one indicator that a child might develop ADHD.
Secondly, scientists examined 'surgency', which is a temperamental trait describing a tendency towards high levels of extraversion, movement and impulsivity.
It has also been linked with aggression and behavioural problems in childhood.
And finally, the researchers analysed 'behavioural difficulties', which cover a range of problematic behaviours, including hyperactivity, inattention, conduct problems, emotional difficulties and peer problems.
The scientists then compared newborns’ average dwell time with these behavioural and temperamental traits of behaviour in childhood in order to look for significant associations between the two.
They discovered that newborns who gazed at each image for a shorter length of time tended to be more hyperactive and impulsive later in childhood, than those babies who held their gaze on the objects for longer.
Overall, those babies who looked at objects for less time also had a greater likelihood of suffering behavioural problems in childhood.

The study, published in Scientific Reports and funded by the European Union, the Waterloo Foundation, the Wellcome Trust and the Medical Research Council (MRC), builds on earlier work by the research team.
Their past studies found a link between differences in attention among seven-month-old infants and later childhood behavioural problems.
This new piece of research marks the first time the researchers have examined whether a similar link exists for newborns.
First author Dr Kostas A Papageorgiou, of London Metropolitan University's School of Psychology, added: 'Studying newborns' attention constitutes a window into the developmental mechanisms that contribute to variation in attention and behaviour throughout the lifespan.
'While there are many factors which influence behavioural problems in childhood, our findings suggest that part of what affects later behaviour is already present at birth.
'In the future, these findings could help to identify babies who are at higher risk of attentional difficulties like those seen in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and could aid the development of early interventions which would aim to help improve attentional abilities.'