http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3187133/How-body-like-Chelsea-star-No-carbs-12-swap-cocktails-vodka-use-bags-sugar-exercise-s-personal-trainer-reveals-shape.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
How to get a body like a Made In Chelsea star as revealed by show's trainer | Daily Mail Online

Clad in designer clothes and always enviably bronzed, the cast of Made In Chelsea look undeniably attractive.
But how do they maintain their slim physique while supposedly enjoying a lavish lifestyle of champagne and truffles?
Lonan O'Herlihy, a personal trainer from South Kensington, London, appeared in series eight of the show after having training  cast members including Binky Felstead and James Dunsmore.
Working as a personal trainer in Knightsbridge, the 26-year-old also boasts celebrity clients such Ed Westwick, who played notorious bad boy Chuck Bass in the TV show Gossip Girl.
Here, he shares his tips for achieving a Chelsea-worthy body,  including avoiding carbohydrates, eating a lot of fish and lean meat, and having a personal trainer who has 'great banter'...
Scroll down for video
DIET VS EXERCISE
In the debate over whether diet or exercise is more important, Mr O’Herlihy says diet wins hands down.
‘It’s the diet which is the main thing. Around 80 per cent of it is down to diet. A lot of people don’t realise that,’ he told MailOnline.
‘I train the same all the way through the year but my body changes by about 10 kilos because my diet changes.
‘I’m eating more in winter to build up muscle. In summer I’m lighter because I’m going on holiday and that kind of thing.’
In order to look like a Made In Chelsea cast member, he advocates eating a high protein, low carbohydrate diet.
He says: ‘Women avoid protein because they think they’ll become muscular, but they won’t. Protein is used to repair muscles.’
NO CARBS AFTER 12PM
He advises avoiding eating carbohydrates in the afternoon and evening.
‘But I know that’s hard, especially when you think about what time some people get up,’ he admits.
To achieve a Chelsea-style physique, people should eat unlimited vegetables and lean meat, he added.
He says: ‘For breakfast, egg whites with some tuna. Lunch, a salad with grilled chicken. Dinner, white meat or fish and vegetables. Snacking on nuts and berries.
‘Eating well is really easy, it’s just about getting into a routine.’
However, he confesses he does not always practice what he preaches.
Currently in Barbados, holidaying at co-star and friend Josh Shepherd’s house, he says it has been hard to stick to a healthy diet.
‘Out here it’s very difficult because Josh has a cook,’ he says.
EAT SUGAR-FREE DESSERTS
Commenting on his proposed diet, Mr O’Herlihy says: ‘You don’t have to be miserable.
‘You can have a day off a week and eat what you want. But then six other days a week you have to get back into it.’
While initially he’s firm about the fact desserts should be avoided, he then admits he does sometimes indulge in something sweet.
‘There’s a place near where I live in South Kensington that sells sugar-free, gluten-free, free-from-everything-bad desserts,’ he says.
‘So you can find healthy ones if you know where to look.’
ONLY DRINK VODKA
And while alcohol should be avoided, people choosing to drink should opt for the clear spirits, which are lower in calories, he says.
‘If you can avoid alcohol then that’s best. I’ve done 6 months not drinking and I had amazing results.
'But if you’re in a social group it’s just not possible,’ Mr O’Herlihy says.
‘So I would say look at the calorie content of each, stick to just vodka or gin, which is lower in calories.
'And a glass of red wine here and there doesn’t hurt.’
WHY WOMEN SHOULD DO WEIGHTS
Women avoid weights as they believe they’ll end up looking like a bodybuilder, but weightlifting can help people achieve the Made In Chelsea look, he says.
‘Lots of women do get nervous training with weights. They think they’ll start looking like a man, but they won’t. They don’t have the testosterone.
‘It won’t happen. Using weight and endurance exercises is a great way to get women in shape.’
He supports the #strongnotskinny movement which has swept social media sites like Twitter and Instagram, where women post pictures of themselves becoming strong, rather than waif-like.
However, he says it is foolish to be prescriptive and ultimately people should train to get whatever type of body they desire.
When asked who he thinks is the fittest member of Made In Chelsea, he chuckles.
‘Apart from me?,’ he retorts, before naming most of the girls in the show.
‘I guess I would say Rosie, Sophie, and Lauren. And Binky. And Lucy and Tiff.’
‘All the girls train every day, just in different ways,’ he adds.
WHY THERE’S NO EXCUSE NOT TO EXERCISE
Mr O’Herlihy now runs an elite London-based personal training service called Knightsbridge Fit, which boasts celebrity clients such as Ed Westwick, who played Chuck Bass in Gossip Girl.
But he says even people who have never done any exercise before in their lives can benefit and enjoy it.
He only began going to the gym after becoming injured playing tennis at age 19, and began enjoying it so much he decided to carry out qualifications to become a personal trainer.
‘I tell clients, I started at the bottom, I wasn’t born to go to the gym,’ he says.
‘I saw results, enjoyed it more, looked for different ways to train and kept going.’
And now, with the available technology, there is ‘no excuse’ not to exercise.
Recently he has paired with Lenovo to create a series of workout videos that can be streamed on laptops and tablets, so people can exercise form their own homes.
He says technology can be used to promote a healthier lifestyle, with apps that track exercise and workout videos people can do at any time of the day.
‘People say they don’t have the time, but it’s just an excuse,’ he says.
‘All you need is a tablet and access to internet and you can train anywhere in the office, or at home.’
In my Lenovo videos I use squats, press ups, core work. At home you can use a bed or chair for tricep dips. You can do planks with a bag of sugar.’
He currently lives with co-star Binky Felstead, who he says often does a workout from her laptop at home, in between filming.
‘All I can think is that people just don’t have the desire to exercise,’ he continues.
‘If you’re lazy it’s not going to help anything. Just start once a day, then up your target and keep making lots of small, achievable targets.’
He has trained many of the cast members, including Binky Felstead, James Dunsmore, and Josh Shepherd.
And what does the Made in Chelsea workout entail?
‘I keep it to endurance weights, lots of repetitions, callisthenics (gymnastic-like exercises) and plyometrics (moves incorporating jumping),’ he says.
‘I change the routine consistently. Every session, I try and do a new exercise to shake it up. That way you can see long term results. I try and keep it as fun as possible.’
When asked how he manages to make workouts, which are a gruelling thought for most people, 'fun', he retorts quickly.
‘Well, I’ve got great banter,’ he quips.
