Human Growth Hormone, HGH, sold as 'anti-ageing wonder drug,' has a dark side  | Daily Mail Online


Hollywood studio executives use it, as do, it's rumoured, a raft of A-list film stars who are desperate to roll back the years.
Now clinics in the UK are reporting an influx of patients begging for the apparent elixir of youth — human growth hormone (HGH).
Extraordinary claims are made for HGH. It gives you glossier hair, firmer skin, a greater sex drive, enhanced memory and more energy, say evangelists. Others use it for weight loss and muscle gain. Some say it can even make you look two decades younger.
'It seemed like magic,' says 40-year-old Aimi Veness, from East Sussex, who started using HGH last August. 'I was down to under 9st even though I was eating whatever I liked.
'I had more energy and, despite my stressful job as a publicist, was sleeping better than I had in years: I woke up feeling invigorated and younger.'
But if all this sounds far too good to be true, that's probably because it is. And doctors are warning of a very dark side to the so-called Peter Pan drug.
While U.S. stars such as Sylvester Stallone and Nick Nolte happily admit to using it, HGH is thought to have a long list of potential side-effects — including joint and muscle pain, increased risk of heart problems, diabetes and even cancer.
In the UK, HGH is a Class C drug, meaning it is illegal to 'deal' in it. Doctors can prescribe it, but only under strict guidelines and for specific conditions.
Even so, this hasn't stopped hordes of middle-aged women seeking it out. Nor some clinics from illegally shipping it from Russia or China.
Online, HGH is just a click away: for about £300, you can buy 25 vials of the stuff for self-injection.
The global trade in HGH is booming, with analysts estimating the market will be worth £2.4 billion by 2020.
So who should you trust? Users who claim HGH gives them a whole new lease of life, or cautious medics who say more studies need to be done on the drug's long-term effects before it's declared safe?
In fact, human growth hormone is a wholly natural substance. It's produced by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain.
'It's vital for the growth of children, for maturing the skeleton and developing soft tissues,' says consultant endocrinologist Dr Parijat De of the BMI Priory Hospital, Birmingham.
'In adults it helps to regulate the metabolism, and is good for heart health and psychological well-being.
'From the age of about 25, however, the hormone starts to decline, and by your 70s and 80s, little, if any, HGH will be produced.'
Since the 1950s it has been used for several medical conditions. 'A synthetic form of HGH — somatropin — is often given to children who are very short in stature,' says Ashley Grossman, Professor of Endocrinology at the University of Oxford Churchill Hospital.
'It's also given to adults with a medical problem that means they don't produce enough — a pituitary tumour, for example.'
Under these circumstances HGH is available on prescription. But it's expensive, and costs the NHS £6,000 a year per patient.
Inevitably, some medics saw potential in HGH as an anti-ageing drug. By replacing the declining hormone, goes the theory, we restore our bodies to youthfulness.
A 1990 study found that men aged over 60 and injected with high levels of HGH over several months had more muscle and fewer wrinkles.
This sent waves of excitement through the anti-ageing industry, although the author published another study (less well publicised) a year later, listing adverse effects.

The hype was believed by Aimi Veness. Yet, hers is a cautionary tale. 'I've always been concerned about my appearance,' she says now. 'The days when I'd walk into a room and all heads turned are gone. But as a publicist, surrounded by the rich and famous, it's vital I look my best the whole time.'
Before her introduction to HGH, she had already tried Botox and had had a boob job in her late 20s.
Last summer, Aimi's husband Marc, a 41-year-old builder, returned from the gym excited about an injection that would give him muscles and her an even more youthful appearance. Apparently lots of gym-goers were taking it and it worked.
Initially, Aimi was less enthusiastic. She says: 'Marc was keener than I was at the start. But when he told me HGH was also an anti-ageing product, I began to take a greater interest.'
And Marc's 'friend of a friend' from the gym duly produced some. Manufactured in China, it came as a powder and cost £150 for ten vials.
'It looked OK,' says Aimi. 'It had a batch number, but that might have been fake.'
In fact, there is simply no way of telling whether vials of HGH bought online actually contain what their labels say they do.
Aimi and Marc were undeniably naive and had no idea HGH is illegal in the UK. And they were determined to go ahead.
'It didn't come with needles,' says Aimi, 'so I made Marc go to a centre that offers clean needles to drug users to fetch some. I couldn't go myself as I know too many people locally. I'd have been mortified if anyone had seen me.'
The couple mixed the powder with water and measured the dose according to instructions found on the internet. Then, one morning last summer in their kitchen they injected their abdomens.
'You have to be very careful,' says Aimi seriously. 'If you get an air bubble in your blood you can die, so you have to keep flicking the needle. And if you hit a vein you can really bruise yourself.'
It's difficult to know just how many HGH users there are in Britain, but some specialists report a big growth in patients asking for it.
Cosmetic expert Dr Frances Prenna Jones has received many requests at her Mayfair clinic, and isn't wholly sceptical about HGH.
She says: 'There is concrete medical evidence for it increasing muscle and decreasing fat, and some scientific papers say it improves skin quality and can even help cognition.
'There may be something in it, but it needs proper, long-term investigation. Currently, I'm on the fence.'
But her real worry is that desperate women who buy HGH online have no idea what they're actually injecting into themselves.
'You wouldn't inject insulin you'd bought online would you?' she says. 'This is exactly the same. And HGH isn't a quick fix. It ought to take a month for results to manifest if what you're taking is genuine.'
Yet Aimi says she started to feel the benefits after just a few days.
'First of all I noticed that I had more energy, though that might have been psychosomatic,' she recalls. 'Then I began to sleep much better.'
Over the next few weeks her skin became baby-soft and she lost almost 2st without trying.
'One night I tripped over and cut my knee. I couldn't believe how quickly the cut healed. I felt like one of those super-heroes who just heal straight away,' says Aimi.
Initially her use was sporadic, but by October last year she was injecting almost daily. She recalls: 'We went on a cruise to the Caribbean for my 40th birthday and it was just perfect. I felt amazing — slim and young and energetic.'
In hindsight, it may have been fortunate for Marc that he stopped injecting himself after just two weeks. 'He bruised when he did the injections,' says Aimi. 'So I just injected his.'
Soon things started to go horribly wrong. In January this year the couple moved house and Aimi caught flu, which she just couldn't shake off.
And then, one dark day at the end of that month, to her horror Aimi found she couldn't move her hands. 'I was trying to pick up a bowl and couldn't. There were shooting pains going down my wrists and I had no mobility in my hands. I was terrified' she says.
Initially, diagnosed with a virus, she was told to return to the GP if the problem didn't improve. Things soon became much worse.
'Over the next eight weeks my entire body started to hurt. My knees, arms, toes, every joint was agony. It was like I was on fire.
'Ironically, having spent so much of my time trying to look young, I felt like an 80-year-old woman. I could hardly walk up the stairs some days.'
Incredibly, she carried on using the HGH. 'There was a niggling anxiety at the back of my mind, but I actually hoped that the injections might help me feel better.'
In March, Aimi's GP cautiously diagnosed her with the auto-immune condition known as lupus, which causes extreme fatigue, rashes and joint pain. 'That was the day I stopped taking the injections,' says Aimi. 'I was convinced that I had caused my own suffering. I kept saying to Marc: “What if this is my fault?” '
Her dream of eternal youth is long over. Aimi is taking pain-relief drugs constantly, in the form of prescription anti-inflammatories, and has regained all the weight she had once lost.
'I'm permanently exhausted as well as suffering crippling joint pain,' she says.
This week she starts steroid injections to relieve the pain and other symptoms of lupus.
Consultant endocrinologist Dr De believes the growth hormone may well be the cause of Aimi's condition. 'It is possible, yes, that her current predicament is related to delayed side-effects of HGH,' he says.
Most experts have horror stories about the unwanted effects of HGH. 'I had a weight-lifter patient who bought it online,' says Professor Grossman. 'But I think it must have been mixed with insulin because he kept passing out.'
And yet it is possible, he says, that when taken by the over-70s, HGH may combat the frailty that comes with old age.
'I do have elderly patients who are getting supplies and hoping it will keep them young,' he says.
Meanwhile, Aimi and Marc are struggling to come to terms with the results of their apparently dangerous experiment.
'This is ten times worse than looking old. I feel old,' Aimi says sadly.
'Every morning I wake in agony, with my body burning, from my head all the way down to my toes.
'My feet have gone up half a size, too. I have the biggest walk-in wardrobe of designer heels, but I can't wear any of them because they don't fit any more and my ankles are so painful.
'I've even wondered whether I might end up in a wheelchair.
'Marc has been amazing. He said that he'll be my carer no matter what. I can't believe that vanity might have caused me such pain.
'The thought of being old has always terrified me, but now I just wish I had my previous life back, when I had energy and wasn't in constant pain.
Aimi hopes that her experience will act as a warning to others.
She says: 'I'd like to think that people might read my story and think twice about buying HGH on the internet and taking anything unsupervised.
'Perhaps it will leave my system and I'll go back to normal in a few months time, but what if I'm like this for ever?
The truth is, I'm scared.'