Identical twin girls Neve and Belle Boitelle die of leukaemia 2 years apart | Daily Mail Online

Twice the joy, twice the excitement and twice the nappies.
For Clare and Darren the arrival of their twin daughters Neve and Belle left them feeling over the moon and totally in love with their newborns.
But six months later twice the tragedy befell the couple after their treasured twins were diagnosed with leukaemia.
A month later the couple lost Neve to the disease.
Her identical twin Belle survived for almost two years before dying in the arms of her parents, aged 28 months.
Mrs Boitelle said: 'Our hearts and souls are forever broken.
'This has been a heart-wrenching journey with our beautiful, brave princesses, taken away from us so soon.

'Our lives won't go back to the way they were before. We have lost both our girls, it's devastating.'
The girls were born prematurely on November 10, 2012, and were cared for in the special care baby unit at St James's Hospital in Leeds.
Neve weighed 3lbs and her sister Belle 2lbs 12oz.
They spent just three months at home with their parents and older brother Hiro, now seven, before the devastating diagnoses.
Mr and Mrs Boitelle first noticed something was wrong when Neve started to refuse feeds, appeared pale and developed two black eyes and bruising on her body.
The six-month-old was taken to Leeds General Infirmary in May 2013.
There doctors told her parents she was suffering infant acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
Devastated, Mr and Mrs Boitelle asked specialists to examine Belle, who by this time had begun to show similar symptoms.
They confirmed the couple's worst fears, both their daughters were battling the cancer.
Neve then underwent 15 days of intensive chemotherapy before losing her fight for life at just six months old, on May 20, 2013.
Her identical twin Belle, spent her first and second birthdays in hospital as she continued her fight against the cancer.
But, the toddler succumbed to the disease on March 25, when she died in her parents' arms at the same hospital where her sister lost her life.

Mrs Boitelle had to leave her job as a marketing manager after the double diagnoses and her husband quit his hairdressing job as they became full-time carers in hospital while also looking after Hiro.
The grieving parents have now pledged to raise cash for cancer charities and awareness of infant acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in memory of their 'inspirational' daughters.
They have so far raised around £3,000 and are appealing for more donations for childhood cancer charity Candlelighters, Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research, Martin House Chi|dren's Hospice, and CLIC Sargent.
To help the couple raise money, visit their JustGiving page here.

Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is a cancer of the white blood cells.
All white blood cells are made in the bone marrow.
There are two different types of white blood cells - lymphocytes and myeloid cells.
They work together to fight infection.
Normally, white blood cells develop, repair and reproduce in an orderly and controlled way.
But in leukaemia, the process gets out of control and the cells continue to divide in the bone marrow, but do not mature.
These immature dividing cells fill up the bone marrow and stop it from making healthy blood cells.
As the leukaemia cells fail to mature, they cannot work properly to fight infections.
This leads to an increased risk of infection, and because the bone marrow cannot make enough healthy red blood cells and platelets, symptoms such as anaemia and bruising can occur.
There are four main types of leukaemia:
Chronic forms of the disease tend to affect adults and are very rare in children.
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is specifically a cancer of the immature lymphocytes, called lymphoblasts or blast cells.
The causes of ALL are not yet known but studies have found identical twins and brothers and sister are at an increased risk of the disease.
Symptoms of ALL are similar to other forms of leukaemia, and include:
Source: Macmillan Cancer Support
