http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3184188/Infections-wreck-summer-millions-women-s-peak-season-urinary-tract-infections-affect-half-women.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Infections that wreck summer for millions of women | Daily Mail Online


For many of us, summer means sun, sea, sand and ice cream. But for a huge number of women, it's blighted by the agony of urinary tract infections (UTIs).
Summer is peak season for UTIs, with a third more cases, according to some estimates. This is thought to be down to dehydration (not enough fluid to flush out the bladder) and more sexual activity, which increases the likelihood of irritation of the urethra and bacteria getting into the bladder.
Half of all women will experience a UTI at some point, with many having repeated bouts - 53 per cent of those over 55 and 36 per cent of younger women report a recurrence within one year, according to a review in the British Journal of Family Medicine.
Liz Fletcher, 31, a midwife from Cambridge, is no stranger to recurrent UTIs, having suffered them from the age of 13.
'As a teenager, I used to wake in the night feeling like I desperately needed the toilet,' she says. 'I'd get up to go, but nothing would come.'
The infections grew more severe when Liz became sexually active as an adult, and she would usually end up on antibiotics, which cleared the infection within a day. The problem became worse when Liz was training as a midwife.
'The combination of tiredness, stress from the course and dehydration when working on a ward, where you'd barely get time to have a cup of tea or go to the toilet, sent my bladder into meltdown,' she says. 'I'd wake in the night feeling the usual starting symptom of the urge to pee, but within hours I'd be in absolute agony.'
This was happening every few weeks, especially when she was on holiday and forgot to drink enough fluid, and the only solution was endless courses of antibiotics. 'I had an ultrasound in 2009, but it didn't show any blockages or defects, so I think UTIs are just my Achilles heel,' she says.
The urinary tract is made up of the kidneys, the two ureters (the tubes that link the kidneys to the bladder), the bladder and the urethra (through which urine exits the body).
The most common UTI is cystitis, or inflammation of the lining of the bladder: symptoms include needing to urinate frequently, dull pain in the lower abdomen, pain when urinating, and cloudy, bloody or odd-smelling urine.
The most common bacteria linked to UTIs are Escherichia coli (E. coli), responsible for up to 90 per cent of infections. The bacteria are found naturally in the gut but the problem occurs if they enter the urethra.
'There are many others, including Klebsiella and Enterococcus faecalis, which are becoming increasingly antibiotic-resistant,' says Dr Jennifer Rohn, a cell biologist who specialises in UTIs at University College London.
Because they have shorter urethras, reducing the distance bacteria have to travel, women are more prone to infections. The urethra and anus are also in close proximity in women (men rarely get UTIs and, if they do, often it's a sign of another problem, such as with the prostate gland).
'We don't know exactly why some women get repeated infections, but it's thought to be that the protective layer of tissue in the urethra and bladder is more susceptible to invasion by bacteria,' says Subu Subramonian, a consultant urologist at the BMI Priory Hospital in Birmingham.
He suggests that sometimes symptoms could actually be irritation of the urethra due to strong urine. It can be eased by drinking plenty of water.
The urethra can be irritated by bubble baths, vaginal toiletries and sex, adds Dr Helen Webberley, a GP with Oxford Online Pharmacy.
'The difference between this and an infection is that you can live with irritative symptoms and get by with drinking lots of water and taking painkillers.
'An infection, on the other hand, starts mildly and rapidly worsens into agony within hours.' That's when you need to see your GP, she says, so that a course of antibiotics can be started - left untreated, severe infections can travel to the kidneys, causing potentially serious complications.
A simple dipstick test by your GP can confirm the presence of an infection, but if nothing shows up that does not necessarily mean you do not have one, says James Malone-Lee, professor of medicine at the Whittington Campus, University College London.
'The tests are not very sensitive. It's far more important that your doctor listens to your list of symptoms.'
Other conditions should also be considered, especially if you have a new partner. A 2015 U.S. study found that UTIs and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) were often misdiagnosed.
'This is quite common as they share many symptoms, such as pain on urination and lower abdominal pain,' says Mr Subramonian.
'The problem is that neither condition responds to the antibiotics used for the other. In an ideal world, every infection would be tested in a laboratory to see if there's an infection at all, and then which type of bacteria was responsible.
'In reality, treatment starts with a best-guess approach. The overuse of antibiotics is leading to many types of bacteria becoming resistant to treatment.'
Scientists are looking for alternatives. For instance, a recent U.S. study found that the acidity of urine (which can be manipulated with certain medications) combined with diet may dictate whether bacteria can multiply, suggesting diet could eventually be used in prevention.
Number of urinary tract infections that develop into kidney bugs
Liz Fletcher has tried many alternative treatments. 'I've been on so many courses of antibiotics and they work a little less quickly each time, so I reserve them for severe infections,' she says. Like many women she tried drinking cranberry juice, which seemed to help for a while.
The scientific jury is divided on the effectiveness of cranberry for curing UTIs, but a 2014 study found it helped prevent recurrent UTIs in young and middle-aged women.
'It can be effective at relieving symptoms and warding off infection for some,' says Mr Subramonian. 'It stops the bacteria sticking to the walls of the bladder. I recommend it to patients.'
The NHS advises you take cranberry supplements rather than drink juice (but cranberry can interact with warfarin, so shouldn't be taken if you're on this medication).
'Making the urine more alkaline can also relieve symptoms such as pain on urination,' says Professor Malone-Lee. He suggests drinking a tablespoon of bicarbonate of soda mixed with water every few hours for the first two days of an infection.
Liz now takes D-Mannose, a form of sugar said to bind to E. coli, and drinks water with lemon juice, 'which seems to soothe my symptoms'. But the big breakthrough was cutting out fizzy drinks.
'Last year, I had a low-level infection that had been rumbling on for a few days and I had some lemonade in the pub,' she says. 'Within half-an-hour, I was in agony. I've cut out all sweet, fizzy drinks and I've had far fewer infections since.'
Indeed, a study in the American Journal of Epidemiology in 2013 found that caffeinated diet soft drinks increased urgency and led to worse symptoms in women with urinary tract problems, possibly because of an interaction between sweeteners and caffeine.
But for women who experience repeated infections, the advice is that you need targeted antibiotics, which involves your doctor sending off a urine culture and finding out which bacteria are causing the infection, says Dr Webberley.
Mr Subramonian believes some women may benefit from oestrogen. 'This is essential for keeping the lining of the vagina and urethra healthy,' he says. 'When levels of the hormone drop after menopause, the urethra and bladder lining can become more susceptible to infection.'
For information on UTIs, visit cobfoundation.org or call 0121 702 0820.







