Is there a link between orange juice and SKIN CANCER? | Daily Mail Online

Drinking a glass of orange juice or eating a fresh grapefruit for breakfast may increase the risk of skin cancer, researchers say.
Doctors found a link between certain forms of citrus fruits and melanoma, the most deadly form of the disease.
A glass of orange juice at least once a day increased the risk by 25 per cent, researchers found, according to HealthDay.
And those who ate whole grapefruit at least three times a week had a 41 per cent higher melanoma risk, versus those who never ate it, researchers found.
On the other hand, there was no connection between melanoma risk and either whole oranges or grapefruit juice.
The researchers were quick to stress they did not prove citrus fruits cause skin cancer, they simply observed a link.
But it is possible that certain compounds in citrus foods could cause melanoma, said senior author Dr Abrar Quershi, chair of dermatology at Brown University and a dermatologist at Rhode Island Hospital, in Providence.
Citrus fruits contain psoralens and furocoumarins – 'photoactive' chemicals that make the skin more sensitive to the sun, he explained.
Dr Quershi and his team used data on more than 63,000 women in the Nurses' Health Study and 41,000 men in the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study, both of which ran from the mid-1980s to 2010.
Every two to four years, people were asked to answer detailed questionnaires on their diet and lifestyle habits, including events like a melanoma diagnosis, which was confirmed with medical records.
They answered questions about how frequently they consumed grapefruits, oranges, grapefruit juice or orange juice.
The total of these four categories was considered an estimate of 'overall citrus consumption,' although it did not include other citruses like lemons and limes.
Over more than 20 years of follow-up, the researchers noted 1,840 cases of melanoma.
They found people who ate citrus two to four times a week had a 10 per cent increased risk of melanoma.
That was compared to people who ate citrus less than twice a week.
As people's consumption of citrus increased, so did their risk of this type of skin cancer.
People who ate the fruits more than 1.5 times per day on average had a 36 per cent increased risk of developing melanoma.
Of all the citrus fruits, grapefruit seemed to have the strongest association with melanoma.
Even accounting for varying amounts of sun exposure and the geographic location of the study participants, the link between citrus fruits and skin cancer was still strong, Dr Qureshi said.
He added that more research is needed to confirm the connection and to provide any advice on whether people should drink orange juice or eat grapefruit.
'We are not recommending changing fruit consumption as these fruits and vegetables are important for overall health,' he told Reuters Health.
'However, until we learn more about these furocoumarins, those consuming fresh citrus fruits on a regular basis should be extra careful with sun exposure, and depending on their outdoor activities they should wear appropriate sunscreen, hats and sun-protective clothing.'
The findings were published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology.
Each year 132,000 melanoma skin cancers occur around the globe, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).
Rates of melanoma are increasing, and the main factors predisposing people the development of the cancer are connected with recreational exposure to the sun and a history of sunburn.
These factors lie within each individual's own responsibility, the WHO said.
According to a survey, carried out by the British Association of Dermatologists, more than three-quarters would not recognise warning signs of melanoma.
The survey found 77 per cent of respondents said they do not feel confident they could identify the signs of a melanoma - the most deadliest form of skin cancer.
Melanoma can appear anywhere on the body, but they most commonly appear on the back, legs, arms and face and even underneath a nail.
Though less common, they often spread to other organs in the body, making them more deadly.
The most common sign is the appearance of a new mole or a change in an existing mole.
Signs to look out for include a mole that is:
A helpful way to tell the difference between a normal mole and a melanoma is the ABCDE checklist:
Asymmetrical – melanomas have two very different halves and are an irregular shape.
Border – melanomas have a notched or ragged border.
Colours – melanomas will be a mix of two or more colours.
Diameter – melanomas are often larger than 6mm (1/4 inch) in diameter.
Enlargement or elevation – a mole that changes size over time is more likely to be a melanoma.