Jannine McHaffie has half her face removed to try and beat adenoids cystic carcinoma | Daily Mail Online

A mother needed half her face removed after severe nosebleeds which were misdiagnosed as hayfever turned out to be cancer.
Jannine McHaffie, from Chelmsford, Essex, had her upper teeth, palate bone, top right jaw, and parts of her cheek bones removed after being diagnosed with adenoids cystic carcinoma.
The 25-year-old was diagnosed with the rare cancer, which affects the salivary glands, six months after finding a strawberry sized tumour in her nose.
Now Ms McHaffie is back home recovering after surgeons removed a bone from her leg to rebuild the missing facial features.
The full-time mother-of-one said: 'What started out as a few heavy nosebleeds turned out to be the most horrifying journey of my life.
She said: 'I went to my GP who said it was hayfever and there wasn't a lot he could do about it.
'After 10 months I was finally diagnosed with ACC, I was terrified, I've never heard of anything like it.
'I was sat down as surgeons told me they had to remove most of my upper mouth which would be mainly reconstructed by using the fibula bone in my right leg.
'I took a deep breath and put on a brave smile, I knew it had to be done.
'I just kept thinking about my daughter Leylah, who's three. I wanted the doctors to do whatever it took to save me as I don't want to miss a second of her growing up.
'I've been back home recovering for three weeks now and a few days ago I finally walked again for the first time with no crutches.
'I've still got to have radiotherapy once my mouth and face have healed but I know I'll smash that after going through all of this.'
Ms McHaffie first found the lump in her nose in September 2014.
But after going to the GP a month later she was reassured it was a common polyp, a small and benign growth.
However by January 2015, the lump had become so big it was affecting her breathing, so she was referred for a CT scan, followed by an emergency MRI scan  at Braintree Community Hospital in Essex.
Then a biopsy was carried out at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Kings Lynn, in Norfolk.

On February 24 she was given the devastating diagnosis of ACC - and surgeons explained the next stage would be to remove most of her upper mouth.
She was referred to the Royal Marsden Hospital, London, for the surgery.
Ms McHaffie underwent the gruelling 13 hour operation on May 26, followed by two other procedures.
She said: 'I was sedated for three days while I underwent three different operations.
'After the first one, surgeons knew something wasn't quite right with the roof of my mouth and the blood flow.
Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma (ACC) is a rare cancer of secretory glands, typically originating in the salivary glands though it does appear in other sites, including the palate, nasopharynx, tongue base, larynx, trachea, lacrimal gland, breast and vulva.
This cancer has a slow, and sometimes relentless, progression characterized by frequent recurrences and can spread to sites such as the lungs, liver and bones.
Cancer researchers point to genetic alterations as the underlying cause of all cancers.
Only a small portion (perhaps 10 per cent) of cancers is believed to be inherited, and ACC is not one of these inheritable cancers.
Rather, as with the vast majority of cancers, ACC appears to develop from genetic alterations caused by a person´s environment, such as through exposure to radiation or cancer-causing agents.
Unlike some other cancers of the head and neck, ACC is not linked to tobacco or alcohol use or infection by the human papilloma virus.
Source: Adenois Cystic Carinoma Research Foundation
'I needed the blood flow into my mouth increased because I kept getting blood clots.'

Thankfully the operation was successful but Ms McHaffie will have to have minor surgery on July 6 to have a plate fitted into the roof of her mouth to fix a small hole.
She said: 'My little girl has been my main focus to get through everything; little does she know she's getting mummy through every day.
'I couldn't have got through this without the help of my parents, their partners and my wonderful boyfriend Chris.
'He was diagnosed with testicular cancer two years ago but is now thankfully in remission, it's just crazy how a young couple can both end up with such awful diseases.
'The recovery process is long in about one year when everything's settled I will be able to have veneers and my appearance should return to normal.
'It's not easy but every day gets better and positivity is very important.
'If you remain positive then you can get through anything.
'I don't know what my future holds, but I plan to fight this every step of the way.'
John Watkinson, vice chairman of the Get A-Head Charitable Trust and Consultant ENT Surgeon at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham said: 'Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma (ACC) is a rare salivary gland cancer, which can occur in the head and neck region.
'The instance of salivary gland cancer overall is about one per million and ACC forms about five per cent of these tumours, so most surgeons will only see one or two cases in their lifetime.
'Patients usually present with a lump which can be painful and patients are treated with wide surgical resection and usually post-operative radiotherapy.
'The radical resection often has huge implications in the head and neck and one of the commonest sites for ACC is the mouth, oropharynx [the part of the throat just behind the mouth] and mid-face.
'Three dimensional reconstruction is usually required, often with subsequent prosthetics including dental rehabilitation.
To donate to Ms McHaffie's cause please visit http://www.gofundme.com/uk3z4c
