Jeremy Hunt has 'no problem' charging for missed GP appointments | Daily Mail Online

Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt has revealed he has ‘no problem’ with charging patients for missing GP appointments.
The Conservative Cabinet minister said people needed to take more ‘personal responsibility’ for the way NHS resources are spent.
Mr Hunt said the government had taken a ‘step closer’ to making people pay for wasting NHS time by putting labels on prescriptions showing the cost of medicine.
He also revealed that patients will be told how much their missed appointments had cost the NHS.
Scroll down for video
Mr Hunt announced plans earlier this week for all prescription medicines costing more than £20 to carry the price of the medicine on the packet with the label ‘funded by the UK taxpayer’ emblazoned on the side.
The Health Secretary said he hoped would encourage people to ‘actually take their medicines’.
Speaking on BBC Question Time last night, Mr Hunt admitted missed appointments was an area where ‘we can do a lot better’ at saving money.
He said it was an ‘incredibly important’ question in light of the pressures on NHS finances and the stress placed on doctors and nurses.
Taking questions last night, Mr Hunt was asked if he would like to charge patients who miss their GP appointment.
He responded: ‘I think [the] question is incredibly important because we are very stretched for resources, doctors and nurses are working incredibly hard and we’re going to have a million more over-70s by the end of this Parliament.
‘If we are going to square the circle and have a fantastic NHS, despite all those pressures, then we have got to take personal responsibility for the way that we use NHS resources. I don’t actually have a problem in principle with the idea of charging people for missed appointments.’
However, he said that although he supports the idea in principal, he thinks it could be difficult in practice.
He said: ‘I think in practical terms it could be difficult to do but I’ve taken a step, if you like, towards that this week by announcing that when people do miss an appointment they will be told how much that has cost the NHS as a first step.’
A pre-election poll this January showed that around eight in ten people think that the Government should consider charging patients for missed GP appointments.
However, the Conservative chairwoman of the Health Select Committee, Dr Sarah Wollaston, this morning attacked the proposal.
She said charging for missed appointments 'would risk penalising those too unwell to attend'.
