http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3147235/Photographer-documents-friend-s-home-water-birth-intimate-series-images-reveals-experience-pure-bliss-mother-baby.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
K Ro Photography documents her friend's at-home water birth | Daily Mail Online

A Florida-based family photographer has captured the emotional moment her close friend gave birth to her third child, a baby girl, during an at-home water birth.
Kathy Rosario had already shot six deliveries with her photography company K Ro Photography, according to BuzzFeed, but this was her first all-natural water birth.
'To me, there is nothing more amazing than watching a woman give birth, and when it’s in the comfort of her own home it feels even more special,' she told BoredPanda. 'I have photographed quite a few births already, but nothing quiet compared to the serenity of a home water birth!'
Scroll down for video
With over 98 per cent of births in the US occurring in a hospital setting, according to data from the CDC, it's understandable that most Americans have never witnessed a water birth - so Ms. Rosario's photo series is both emotional and enlightening.
Her pregnant friend - whose name has not been shared - already had two little boys, age four and two, when she decided to welcome her third child at home.
Shot over the course of two hours, the collection of photos documents the woman's labor pains, the baby's delivery, and the sweet moments of bonding right after the newborn comes into the world.
In one of the first shots, the woman is seen in a jacuzzi style tub, hunched over as she practices breathing through her contractions.
Ms. Rosario said that the room smelled like lavender, and the mother was completely calm - in fact, she was smiling and laughing in between the pain.
As the labor progresses, the mother is shown  wearing just a neon pink sports bra, with her lower body submerged in water. Cushions support her back and head, and her hair is pulled back from her face in a ponytail.
In other photos, cooling cloths have been placed on the mother's forehead and chest, and she sucks on a 'laboraid' popsicle that she made herself. 'Laboraid' - a play on Gatorade - is packed with electrolytes and sometimes used to help keep a mother hydrated through childbirth.
Finally, the baby - covered in purple amniotic fluid - is shown emerging. The mom pulls her newborn out herself while under the supervision of a skilled midwife.
She then checks between the baby's legs and learns that it's a girl. The happy mom is clearly excited to have her first daughter, and the photographer describes the moments after the discovery as 'pure bliss'.
With the help of two midwives, the new mom gets out of tub and has a towel draped around her shoulders. She seems exhausted as she holds her newborn girl against her torso.
With the baby wrapped in a blanket in her arms, she then lays down in bed and tries to breastfeed for the first time. Dad comes to visit too, looking in awe at his newest child.
'It was pure bliss and tranquility as we awaited for the baby’s arrival,' Ms. Rosario told BoredPanda.
Relatively rare in the US, water births are thought to help ease pain for the mother, which can negate the use of anesthesia and make a natural, drug-free birth easier. They can also speed up labor and help the mother relax.
However, despite the possible benefits, the practice is still considered experimental and has some risks. Many doctors suggest that the mother come out of the water when she starts to push, to create an easier environment for professionals to help in the event that something goes wrong.
Water births are also not recommended if there are any foreseen complications, like if they baby is in breech, the birth involves multiples, or if the baby is especially big or premature.
Still, Ms. Roasio said that seening how serene her friend's water birth was made her wonder why so many women without complications still elect to give birth in the hospital. She did note, though, that it is still important to have a trained midwife and a backup plan for emergencies.