
A Made In Chelsea star has revealed that he has beaten cancer just five weeks after telling the world that he had the disease in an emotional blog post.
Fabian Bolin 28, also known for his role in web sci-fi show Kosmos, was diagnosed with leukaemia, cancer of the blood, on July 1 and admitted at the time: 'There is a risk that I will not survive.'
But after weeks of gruelling chemotherapy doctors at the Karolinska Institute near Stockholm say they expect the Swedish actor to make a complete recovery.
Scroll down for video
He recently wrote: 'We have just found out from the doctors at Karolinska the following: my entire blood system, and my spinal chord system, is now free from blood cancer.
'Just to be 100 per cent clear to all of you, my beautiful angels: I have survived and killed my cancer.'
The TV star is not completely out of the woods yet and will continue to  undergo chemotherapy until February 2016 to ensure the cancer is killed off.
Writing on Tuesday , he added: 'Imagine the feeling in your heart when you've run up a long hill. Have you ever tried that? Or if you've ever been at a gym, if you've done a really hard cardio session.
'Now, think about how hard the heart beats. If you want to know how I feel, then add about five times to that heart feeling.'
Following his diagnosis last month, Mr Bolin launched his heartfelt blog and it was quickly shared online.

'My world fell apart,' he says of the day he was diagnosed.
Mr Bolin, who is also half-Brazilian, has spent the last year living in London and says he gave up a career in investment banking to become an actor,The Local reports.
He has since starred in Swedish film Snabba Cash in 2010 (released internationally as Easy Money).
Shortly after his diagnosis, he wrote in his blog, he wrote: 'I feel so utterly sad and confused right now.
'I feel like it's unfair that I should have to go through this hell of a treatment, after fighting so hard to reach this stage in life and be on the cusp of fulfilling my acting dreams.
'But, I will not give up; I'm going to push myself through this in order to be able to continue to live the life that I love so much!'
The blog, which he wrote in English and Swedish, became viral after it was picked up by the Swedish media.
The Facebook post which links to his first blog post has now been shared almost 12,700 times and has received more than 26,200 likes.
In his second post,  he describes his worry over beginning cancer treatment.
He said: 'This morning has been filled with blood tests, dental checks (to prevent infections), meetings with specialist doctors, nurses, nutritionists and physiologists who have tried to inform and prepare me for the nightmare I am now stepping into.
'Not only will I be constantly having cell toxins running through my blood, but I am to take over 50 pills on a daily basis, in order to survive.
'I feel so afraid and worried for my life right now. I don't feel like I deserve to die just yet, I have so much more to do and so many goals to fulfill.
'I keep asking myself "Why me out of all people?" I don't deserve this and nobody else for that matter!'
The chemotherapy treatment will wreck his immune system and leave him infertile, doctors have said.
'My last healthy sons and daughters are now stored away for me and my future special one, should I make it through this,' he writes.
In his latest post he said  he has now been allowed to leave hospital,  returning for check ups and chemotherapy appointments.
He plans to move in with his mother in central Stockholm, something he says he would not have previously considered.
He wrote: 'This is something I never saw myself doing again; to move home.
'I've always seen myself as an adventurer and conqueror with no fear on my mind, but right now I couldn't feel a stronger need to be safe with the people that love me the most, my parents.'
In the blog, he posted pictures of himself in hospital, as well as another of his mother holding him as a baby.
To read more of Mr Bolin's blog, please visit fabianbolinwaroncancer.com.

