
Miranda Kerr has revealed that she likes to change up her workouts to keep her interested - and even gets her four-year-old son Flynn involved.
The former Victoria's Secret Angel, 32, told Your Fitness magazine that staying fit is 'really important' to her and she keeps hunger pains at bay by  carrying healthy snacks around with her.
Miranda, also gave fans a glimpse of her coveted frame, by  posing in a cleavage-enhancing criss-cross black sports bra that showcased her washboard abs.
Scroll down for video
Miranda, who was recently spotted holding hands with 25-year-old Snapchat founder Evan Spiegel, shared her gruelling exercise regime with the fitness magazine.
She said: 'I try to do at least half an hour of yoga every day and then I add Pilates and some strength training with weights and resistance bands to elongate and tone my muscles.
'I’ve been doing yoga for over 12 years now – I like the [physical and mental] effect it has on my body. I used to do gymnastics so yoga really works for me to keep that core strength and flexibility.'
But to make sure she doesn't get bored, Miranda likes 'mix it up' and even exercises with her son with ex Orlando Bloom, 38.
'Everything from resistance training to yoga, hiking to going for a bike ride with my son,' she said.
But it's not just hardcore gym sessions that keep Miranda looking trim.
She also avoids binging on junk food or snacking on sugar-laden snacks by carrying 'healthy snacks that are easily transportable' like 'fresh fruit, nuts and seeds'.
'I like to start the day off right with something healthy and clean like a fresh juice, egg whites with avocado or oatmeal,' she said.
Like fellow Australian model Elle Macpherson, Miranda follows an 'alkaline-based diet' and drinks between 'two to three litres of alkaline water every day to stay hydrated'.
But it's not all work and no play.
She said: 'Sometimes you can't avoid eating something that isn't so healthy if that is all that is on offer, but I try to make sensible choices most of the time.
'So I don’t give myself a hard time if I have something a little naughty!'
When she's not busy honing her physique or starring in campaigns for the likes of  Reebok, Mango and Clinique, Miranda loves spending time with her family.

'I’m really lucky that I live in New York. My son is at such a great age, and it’s wonderful to explore the city with him,' she said.
'I take him to the park, to the farmers’ market, to the playground – and we go out for an adventure.
'It’s great looking at the world through his eyes. I love the sense of amazement and wonderment in him, and try to capture that for myself – to discover something new every day.'
Meanwhile, things appear to be hotting up between Miranda and her toy boy beau.
The pair were spotted on the beach in Malibu on Monday, exchanging loving looks as they strolled along the pier hand in hand
