
When one 62-year-old South Carolina woman found out that her breast cancer had returned and she was going to lose her hair to chemotherapy yet again, she decided to make the most of her locks while she still had them.
Jan Kelleher, 62, was diagnosed with invasive lobular carcinoma after being in remission since 2001. With chemotherapy and a double mastectomy in her future, Jan chose to have a little fun with her 'do before losing it.
'The mohawk was mom's idea. No convincing needed,' her daughter, Sarah Kelleher, told Daily Mail Online. 'She called me one morning and asked me to come over and she had the hair dye and clippers ready to go.'
Needless to say, Jan doesn't fit the mold of the average 62-year-old Southern lady.
'Mom has always been adventurous,' added her daughter, Sarah. 'She has taken me zip lining, hot air ballooning, scuba diving. A week after they found this last cancer, Mom and I took a trip to Hilton Head [South Carolina] and went para-sailing.'
She's also already had some experience with chemotherapy, and even wrote a book about the ordeal called Big C, Little Ta Ta: Kicking Breast Cancer's Butt in 7 Humorous Stories (under the name Janet Sheppard Kelleher). Before she lost her hair in 2001, she covered her head in tiny braids with beads, which she then cut off and gave to her friends as keepsakes.
This time, Jan picked up some supplies and called her daughter over to help create a new look. After dying her hair hot pink, they set a camera recording as Sarah shaved off the sides of her mother's head.
'This is my artiste daughter at work, making my head shine,' Jan says in the clip, which she shared on Facebook. She and Sarah then erupt into a fit of laughter.

'You're so on trend,' Sarah tells her as she sweeps the remaining hair upward.
Though learning that the cancer had come back has naturally been emotional time  - Sarah said she 'cried more than anyone in the family' - Jan's upbeat attitude has made a huge difference.
'Mom's advice is to look for ways to have fun in a bad situation,' Sarah said, adding: 'Cancer medicine has evolved so much since her last bout of cancer, and being involved in her treatment has been super reassuring.'
But perhaps even better than the fun of getting an awesome new hairstyle has been the supportive feedback the family has received since Sarah posted pictures of Jan on Reddit two days ago.
'I hope this is one of those rare times chemo doesn't take the hair and she can just be a bada** pink hawk grandma inspiring everyone,' read the top comment in the thread.
One more supporter wrote: 'Grace under pressure! I love this woman and I don't even know her.'
Others chimed in to say that she pulls off the look well, while one pointed out that Jan looks like 'a punk-rock Elizabeth Warren'.

'The reactions since I posted the picture have been overwhelmingly positive,' Sarah told Daily Mail Online. 'Mom said that she and my dad "mixed a scoop of real coffee in with the decaf" and stayed up into the wee hours of the morning reading all the comments.'
Sarah has also gotten private messages from Redditors who shared their own stories and offered to send Jan care packages. One even made an illustration of Jan as a comic book superhero with a pink shirt on that said: 'F*** cancer'.
But while some people recommended that Jan wear a 'cold cap', which can help preserved hair during chemotherapy, the survivor is having none of it.
Sarah explained: 'Mom said that losing the hair is one of the "fun parts" of cancer. She liked to pull her wig off and freak people out last time she went through it.'