New test reveals a person's exact time of death even after 10 days | Daily Mail Online

A new method for calculating the exact time a person died has been developed by researchers.
The new test will be able to establish an exact time of death even after as long as 10 days.
Currently, time of death is established by measuring core body temperature, which only works up to 36 hours, or three days, after the person has passed away.
To create the new method, the Austrian team measured the breakdown of muscle proteins and enzymes in dead pigs.
As pig muscles are similar to human muscles, their results suggest the method can be applied in forensics to estimate the time of death for humans, too.
The protein blocks that make up our muscles are large, tangled molecules that break down into smaller ones after we die.
Therefore, the researchers observed how muscle proteins and enzymes break down and degrade in pigs.
Proteins show different signs of degradations at specific times after death.
The researchers found that some proteins, for example tropomyosin and actinin, did not show any signs of degradation until after 240 hours.
So by knowing which products of breakdown are present in samples, researchers are able to calculate the time since death.

'It is highly likely that all muscle proteins undergo detectable changes at a certain point in time, and this would extend the currently analysed timeframe even further,' said research leader Dr Peter Steinbacher, of the University of Salzburg.
The scientists have already started running experiments on human samples and say their initial results are promising.
'We were able to detect similar changes and exactly the same degradation products in human muscle tissue as we had in our pig study', Dr Steinbacher said.
Using muscle tissue in post-mortem studies - analysis of tissue carried out after death - is a novel approach and has several advantages, the researchers said.
Firstly, muscle tissue is the most abundant tissue of the human body and can therefore be sampled easily.
Secondly, proteins in muscle tissue are well known.
Thirdly, the new method developed is simple and can deliver results within a day, they concluded.

