Niall Kirkpatrick warns of unlicensed fillers danger on Botched Up Bodies | Daily Mail Online

A leading plastic surgeon has spoken out about the boom in unregulated fillers after treating a woman who was left with lopsided lips after a plumping jab went wrong.
Consultant plastic surgeon Niall Kirkpatrick, head of craniofacial surgery at the Westminster and Chelsea Hospital in London, says the Government needs to do more to regulate the industry.
He was speaking after seeing the damage caused to Hanna Costea, 33, a London-based accountant, who required a lengthy operation to repair her lips following botched filler injections.


Speaking on Channel 5 show Botched Up Bodies, Ms Costea said: 'My lips were really thin before and I wanted to look like the girls I have seen in magazines.
'When I turned 18, my parents allowed me to have fillers so we found one of the best clinics to have it done. After the surgery, I was really happy with the result.
But five years after having the jabs, her body began to reject the filler - leaving her lips lumpy, painful and swollen as a result.
'One side of the lip became bigger and bigger while the other stayed the same. The skin is so stretched, it's cracking and bleeding all the time.
'You can't feel confident around people because you are aware of the problem and can't behave the same way.'

But when she returned to the practitioner who had carried out the beauty treatment, he told her 'he had done nothing wrong and he didn't want to help me.'
Shocking though Ms Costea's plight was, Mr Kirkpatrick says such stories aren't uncommon and said he is seeing more and more cases as cosmetic jabs become more popular.
'Clearly she had much too much put in and it's made her lip very heavy and droopy,' he explained.
'There's been a surge worldwide in the use of filler materials and consequent with that, a significant rise in complications.'
Part of the reason for the rising popularity of fillers is down to celebrities such as Kendall Jenner who have made a career out of their plump pouts.
Others such as Angelina Jolie have naturally plump lips but are often mentioned by women arriving at clinics in search of a similarly voluminous pout.
Dr Neetu Nirdosh, a London-based cosmetic doctor with a number of celebrity clients, gives her top tips:
CHOOSE A SPECIALIST
Find a leading cosmetic doctor who practises dermal fillers full time and not as part of a wider practice. It is always better to get a doctor who specialises in botox and cosmetic injectables.
MAKE SURE THE PRODUCTS ARE RIGHT
Don't be fobbed off with a product you've never heard of - make sure your practitioner uses high grate products such as  Botox for wrinkles and Juvederm dermal fillers for lines.
CHECK THEIR WORK
If you're having a work done in a particularly delicate area such as the eyes, make sure they specialise in advanced cosmetic injectables for that area.
BUILD A RAPPORT
You have to feel comfortable with the doctor and build a good rapport with them before proceeding with the treatment.
www.drnirdosh.com
Also increasingly popular are jabs applied to the delicate skin around the eyes with many clients hoping that a cosmetic jab will banish dark circles and fine line.
This, says leading cosmetic dermatologist Dr Neetu Nirdosh, needs to approached even more cautiously.
'Because the anatomy of the facial region is very delicate, dermal filler needs to be injected extremely carefully in order to give the desired result without doing any damage,' she explains.
'There is no magic cure for dark circles but, if done properly, doing the tear trough gives wonderful results and reduces under-eye hollows while brightening the eye region.'
But while practitioners such as Dr Nirdosh make every effort to ensure the safety of their patients, not all are so scrupulous - and it's these that Mr Kirkpatrick would like to tackle.


'The government has really failed to regulate the injectable cosmetic industry,' he says. 'Untrialled fillers are widely available and at the moment, anyone can inject it into you.'
Happily for Ms Costea, Mr Kirkpatrick was able to operate  and put right the problems caused by the dodgy filler - removing lumps of the substance before lifting her lips to straighten them.
'Now when I look in the mirror, I feel normal and happy and my husband is happy too,' said Ms Costea following the operation.
'Since the surgery, I've become more confident but also, because my lips are in a normal position, they're not so dry anymore and they're not cracking and bleeding.
'To be able to smile again, it's a big relief. I'm feeling very confident about my future.'