http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3187214/Nutritionist-reveals-eat-way-flatter-stomach.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Nutritionist reveals how to eat your way to a flatter stomach  | Daily Mail Online

Forget doing hundreds of crunches to get that perfect summer tummy, the key to a flat stomach is in the kitchen.
And contrary to advice made famous on TOWIE, the ‘no carbs before Marbs’ trend of cutting out carbohydrates before you go on holiday, can actually lead to bigger belly.
That's according nutritionist Michelle Storfer, who is also a doctor of medicine and the founder of healthy eating website thefoodeffect.co.uk.
'Endless stomach exercises are not the way to get a flat, toned tummy - what you consume is far more important,' Michelle told FEMAIL. 'Great abs are made in kitchen.'
Michelle also warns that despite being the food of the moment, kale can actually cause pre-holiday bloating.
'People often start eating healthily just before they go away but a sudden increase of kale in the diet can have the opposite than desired affect,' she said 'At first kale can create quite a lot of gas, which can bloat the stomach.'
Here, Michelle reveals the ways to flatter tummy.
DO eat carbohydrates
Despite the common wisdom that cutting out carbs before holidays is a quick fix, Michelle says the opposite is true.
In fact, eating healthy carbohydrates like brown rice, sweet potato, quinoa and whole grain bread can actively flatten the tummy.
She said: ‘Carbs are not the devil. Healthy carbs keep blood sugar stable and help reduce cortisol levels, which is associated with belly fat.
'Cutting carbs out completely also slows down metabolism so your body holds on to fat,' she says. 'And when you start eating them again you can end up piling on weight.
But, says Michelle, we are better off without refined white carbohydrates like potato and white bread.
'Swap refined, processed carbs and sugars for fruit and unprocessed whole-grain carbohydrates. It keeps your insulin levels balanced, which in turn helps regulate cortisol levels,' she says.
Chill out!
'Anxiety causes the body to produce extra cortisol, which is a hormone that encourages the body to store fat - especially in the tummy,'  Michelle explained.
So activities such as yoga, meditation and mindfulness can help you lose weight even if your diet stays exactly the same.
'In the short-term, when we are stressed we don't digest our food efficiently. And that leads to weight gain.'
Anxiety and stress can also create a build up of cortisol in the long-term, which is the enemy of a flat stomach.
A spoon full of apple cider helps the tummy go down
Even better than warm water and lemon, often promoted as the healthiest way to start the day, Michelle advises kicking off the morning with a mug of warm water and apple cider.
'Apple cider is a wonder food,' she says. 'It has loads of healing properties. Put one tablespoon of apple cider into a mug of warm water.
'It will hydrate you and cleanse your digestive system. It's the perfect way to de-bloat your body.'

'Even though it’s a vinegar it neutralises acid and puts your body in a good pH balance so your internal systems work well.
'It can also kill bad stomach and intestine bacteria and promotes good gut bacteria. It's much more effective than a probiotic,' she says.
Eat pineapple
Pineapple contains an enzyme called bromelain and has been shown to boost metabolism and burn fat.
'Bromelain is a super-enzyme and pineapple is one the richest sources,‘ Michelle said.
'The enzyme boosts metabolism, helps absorb nutrients and makes you more efficient at burning fat.'
She advises aiming to eat a quarter of a pineapple a day. 'Eat it fresh, in a fruit salad with Greek yogurt or add it to your smoothies or juices.
The enzyme is also available in supplement form, but Michelle advises that the best way to absorb it is through food.
Bromelain is also an anti-inflammatory, helps joint disease and has been found to help prevent cancer.
Don't jump on the kale bandwagon (a week before holiday)


'Kale is a great food and super-healthy, but if you are not used to it can also cause terrible bloating and gas. Play it safe to begin with and introduce it slowly,' says Michelle.
Similarly, while foods rich in plant-based protein, such as chickpeas and legumes are healthy in the long-term, if your body’s not used to them they can also cause gas and bloating.
Michelle advises allowing your body a couple of weeks to get used to any new foods being introduced.
'Spinach and cucumber and tomato are excellent alternatives that cause less gas if you want to start a healthy eating kick,' she says.
Drink fennel tea
'Fennel tea is a natural diuretic and reduces excess water storage.  It’s a very healthy way of preventing bloating and you can notice results in just a few days.
'If you want to fit into a tight dress or bikini, fennel tea is the answer,' she says.
Michelle says that by drinking a few cups of tea for two or three days in a row you can achieve noticeable results.
'Green tea also has a compound in it that has been shown to boost metabolism,' she says.
Slow down and enjoy your food
'When we eat too fast we don’t give our brains enough time to realise we’re full and usually end up eating way more than we need in the process,' says Michelle. 'Focus on the food you’re eating and don’t just wolf it down'
Michelle also advises avoiding eating dinner in front of the TV, lunch in front of your computer or doing anything else distracting.
She says, by taking time to enjoy what we're eating and actually paying attention to what we’re having we can feel fuller.
'Chewing your food properly will aid efficient digestion and eating quickly can cause you to swallow excess air.'
Slowing down will also ensure your brain actually registers when you’ve eaten enough food – before it’s too late.
'Try putting down your cutlery after each mouthful and only going in for the next when you have completely swallowed the last,' she suggested.
Eat a mid-afternoon snack
According to Michelle, mid-afternoon is the weak spot for most of us when it comes to eating.
'People can find themselves suddenly hungry and reach for the most satisfying thing that they can find – which is usually found in the vending machine at work or those biscuits lying around at home.
'These foods cause your insulin and blood sugar levels to spike and then crash shortly after, leaving you feeling tired, lethargic, and even hungrier for more sugary junk food.'
Drink plenty but ditch the fizz
It may seem like litres of water will fill the belly but actually drinking plenty can create a flatter stomach by avoiding unnecessary eating.
'Often when we think we’re hungry, we’re actually just thirsty,' says Michelle. 'Make sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day, as well as one to two glasses before every meal or snack you have.
The recommended daily water intake is around two litres a day, but fizzy drinks should always be avoided.
'Swallowing extra air can promote a swollen rounded belly due to the fizz and excess gas,' Michelle advises.