Nutritionist Charlotte Watts reveals how stress builds up in the body and how to beat | Daily Mail Online

Are you reaching for sugary snacks and suffering frequent infections?
Or perhaps you're snapping at your friends and sensitive to light and sound?
Writing for Healthista, nutritionist Charlotte Watts argues chronic stress affects different people in different ways.
From stressed and tired, to stressed and hormonal, she has devised seven 'stress suits' people wear when they're feeling tense.
Here, she describes the symptoms of each 'suit', and what steps to take to deal with each pressure profile...
THE STRESS RESPONSE
When we’re under stress, we get a heightening of all our body’s physiological responses.
Adrenalin is pumped into our muscles to prepare us for ‘fight or flight’, and blood is taken away from less vital organs such as our reproductive and digestive systems and skin, to allow our bodies to get ready to literally fight the enemy. This is normal, healthy stress.
But when stress is prolonged or we don’t have enough rest after challenging, stressful times, our bodies can start to show symptoms of chronic stress and these can manifest differently in different people.
For example, you might get bloated because your digestive system suffers most during long, stressful times.
Someone else may get terrible PMS because for her, it’s the reproductive and endocrine (hormone) systems that feel and show symptoms of stress the most.
In my book, the De-Stress Effect, I have coined the different sets of chronic stress symptoms I have observed in people as the 'stress suits'.
If you look through the signs, symptoms and habits listed beneath each one, and regularly see three to four of these occurring, read on to see how you can help yourself with simple lifestyle and food measures.
Most of us see more than one 'stress suit' pop up for us, but there is often a predominant pattern, so start there and add in other suggestions that feel right to you.
STRESSED AND WIRED
Symptoms and signs:
Subjecting our nervous systems to constant stimulation from sounds, sights, lights, information from our 24/7 hyper-connectivity, we can be stressed and wired without realizing it – with a heightened, jangly state feeling like our ‘normal’.
Ultimately this is exhausting and if it’s not addressed with lifestyle measures, a 'wired suit' can quickly turn to a 'tired' one (described below) and symptoms can take longer to recover from.
HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Let go a bit
If you are used to ignoring your body’s signals of tiredness and stress, it’s time to start listening to your body’s need for continual rest and recovery.
Take breaks, sleep more, slow down, start the day mindfully and step away from the need to ‘do’ as much as possible.
2. Walk outside
This naturally moves stresses through your body without adding to its load. Moving as we were designed to do helps us relax shoulders and reset breath patterns that stress can make shallow and tense; especially if we walk in greenery.
3. Take magnesium (or eat foods rich in it)
Our ability to calm and regulate mood relies on the mineral magnesium and stress uses it up fast.
Deficiencies can show as anxiety, insomnia, headaches, muscle cramps, depression, fatigue, panic attacks, IBS and blood-sugar issues.
The best food sources are green, leafy vegetables, nuts, seeds, fish, carrots, sweet potato, avocado, cauliflower, tahini, parsley, traditionally prepared soy, lentils.
You can also supplement 300mg of magnesium citrate with dinner.
STRESSED AND TIRED
Symptoms and signs:
Many of rotate between the 'wired suit' and the 'tired suit', even in the course of a day.
Years of being 'wired' without rest and recovery can tip over into 'tired' where energy drops, metabolism slows, weight gain becomes more likely and weight loss harder.
Years of high stress hormones can result in crashes that leave you unable to create energy without sugar or stimulants.
HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Cut down on stimulants
It can seem difficult energy fixes like stress itself, sugar and/or stimulants like coffee, alcohol or cigarettes when they seem to be the only things keeping you going, but these ‘uppers’ are wearing you down and depleting nutrients your body and brain rely on to create energy and deal with stress.
2. Have a protein breakfast
Start the day with a protein breakfast to support your adrenals and blood sugar balance for natural energy production.
Eggs, smoked salmon, nuts, Greek yoghurt and feta cheese are all great examples, especially with rye bread and alkalizing salad part like watercress, avocado, cucumber or spinach.
3. Keep moving
Do not carry out just bouts of exercise but engage in Spontaneous Daily Movement (SPA).
Studies show that muscle quickly breaks down without movement and metabolism slows down when it seems that energy production isn’t needed.
Getting up from your desk every hour prevents stagnation and sluggishness.
STRESSED AND COLD
Symptoms and signs:
Chronic stress signals the survival mechanism to conserve energy for potential action and the thyroid glands slow down metabolism, so weight loss becomes harder.
Many women with these symptoms may have had a ‘normal’ result from a doctor’s thyroid test, as it’s possible to have a thyroid functioning slightly short of hypothyroidism, or because your body isn’t utilising the hormones it does make, due to stress.
HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Avoid sugar
Low thyroid function can go hand in hand with blood sugar issues and weight piling on, so avoid sugar and refined carbohydrates and eat quality protein and good fats at each meal.
2. Exercise outside
Exercise stimulates thyroid hormone secretion and enables your body to pick it up for use.
Doing this outdoors and allowing yourself to get a little cold increases thermogenesis(heat-creation) that increases metabolism.
3. Do yoga (especially backbends)
Yoga poses like backbends or inversions (where your head is below your heart), encourage blood flow and delivery of oxygen and nutrients to the thyroid, while encouraging the calming that supports it.
STRESSED AND BLOATED
Symptoms and signs:
Stress lowers beneficial gut bacteria, which can prompt inflammation and is linked to conditions such as asthma, eczema and arthritis.
The stress response immediately diverts energy, oxygen and nutrients away from the gut towards brain and muscle.
Ongoing and chronic stress can cause spasm or constriction of gut muscles or uncomfortable cycles of diarrhoea and constipation as the gut struggles for balance.
HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Take probiotics
Take a good quality probiotic (good brands are Quest, Lamberts and Biocare) to help you cope with stress and prevent the immune, detoxification and skin issues that disordered gut balance can create.
2.Take prebiotics
Increase prebiotic foods in your diet.
These feed the essential probiotic bacteria and keep it healthy and growing, a bit like fertiliser.
Most importantly increase your vegetable intake, especially of those with the highest levels of prebiotics such as kiwi fruit, Jerusalem artichokes, chicory, bananas, garlic, onions and leeks.
3. Eat mindfully
Thoroughly chewed food has the best chance of complete digestion and less chance of causing food intolerances. It also helps the brain register ‘full’ signals before you’ve overeaten.
STRESSED AND SORE
Symptoms and signs:
Low-level inflammation is at the root of many aspects of poor health, weight gain and chronic disease.
Even if you don’t see obvious external inflammation, stress and poor dietary habits can set off an inflammatory cascade in tissues and blood vessels that contributes to symptoms and is exhausting.
This starts in the gut where stress can also deplete levels of the anti-inflammatory antibody secretory-IgA.

HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Reduce sugar
Inflammatory AGEs (advanced glycation end-products) are created in response to sugar and stress.
These can contribute to the ageing of every cell in the body (including the skin) by ‘cross-linking’ or lost movement within cells.
2. Get your antioxidants
Eat high levels of antioxidants to counteract the harmful ‘oxidizing’ effects of stress, pollution, exercise, sunlight and eating fried foods.
Eat plenty of vegetables, nuts, seeds and fruit as well as specific bioflavonoids in spices, black tea, green tea and garlic alongside antioxidant-rich treats like red wine and dark chocolate.
3. Cut back on starches
We’ve only been eating these since farming began – are linked to inflammatory conditions like acne and IBS.
At least eat more vegetables in your diet than foods like bread, pasta, rice and pulses, or go Paleo and replace them with vegetables and nuts to see how your body responds.
STRESSED AND DEMOTIVATED
Symptoms and signs:
Stress creates an immediate rise in the feel-good brain chemicals dopamine and serotonin, but cause crashes later, leading to mood drops and cravings for sugar as a quick-fix pick-up and an increasing reliance on sweet foods to ‘feel normal’.
These craving cycles also cause weight gain, which can lower self-esteem and feed into habits of bingeing and/or overeating.
HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Get your fish oils
DHA, an omega 3 fatty acid found in oily fish such as salmon and mackerel, is known to be essential for serotonin and dopamine levels.
Low dopamine and serotonin are linked to depression and other mental health issues. Eat oily fish twice a week or take an algae DHA like Opti-3 if you are vegetarian or vegan.
2. Increase beta-endorphins
Natural opioids or ‘beta-endorphins’ are produced in response to laughing, music, socializing, hugs and sex, a fabulous reward system for keeping the species going.
Sugar raises these too, so can be even more difficult to give up when we aren’t creating our own.
3. Explore
See the advice for stressed and bloated  above.
Even if you don’t have those symptoms, there’s a strong gut-brain connection.
Evidence shows replenishing probiotic gut bacteria also helps alleviate mild depression, as inflammation starts in the gut, is triggered by stress and has depressive effects on the brain.
STRESSED AND HORMONAL
Symptoms and signs:
Your adrenal glands (located above your kidneys) directly affect the balance of oestrogen and progesterone in your body, and when they become unbalanced through stress, heavy, painful periods and other hormonal symptoms may result.
Stress can also lead to weight gain in ‘female areas’ like the bottom, hips and thighs as well as tend us to lay down fat around the middles.
HOW TO FIX IT:
1. Watch the alcohol
It can raise circulating oestrogen and may worsen PMS and heighten breast cancer risk, especially if you take it in drip-feed amounts and find that nightly glass often turns into half a bottle.
2. Go organic
It’s more expensive but worth it, and if you can only make one organic choice make it this. Non-organic meat, eggs and dairy are higher in the growth hormones which disrupt hormone balance.
3. Avoid processed soy products
Traditionally processed forms of soy, such as soy sauce, tamari (gluten-free soy sauce), miso, tempeh and natto, have long been associated with female health when eaten several times a week.
Other processed forms like soy milk, soy protein isolate and textured vegetable protein (TVP) tend to upset hormone-balancing abilities though.
This article first appeared and has been reproduced with the permission of Healthista.com





