Obese woman to become beauty queen thanks to Marilyn Monroe | Daily Mail Online

A woman who suffered nearly two decades of bullying about her weight and hair colour has reached the finals of an international beauty pageant.
Elizabeth Bowman, 26, from Tamworth, suffered 17 years of abuse for being overweight and ginger as a child.
The telesales representative, who is a size 22 and weighs 20st, has even received cruel taunts as an adult - with strangers targeting her in the street.
But she has gone on to embrace her large frame after looking to her role model Marilyn Monroe - famous for her natural curves.
Eventually Elizabeth applied for Miss Plus Size International and has now been shortlisted for the finals.
She said: 'As a kid I was a bully's dream, I was overweight, wore glasses and had ginger hair.
'I'd always been a larger woman, by the age of ten I was wearing clothes meant for adult women.'
In a desperate bid to fit in Elizabeth attempted dieting but says that she never had any success.
She continued: 'I tried losing weight when I was younger but would only have to sniff a chocolate bar and pile on the pounds.
'I found it difficult to avoid my favourite foods and would often binge on sugary snacks. Eventually I realised I was always meant to be a bigger person and have embraced it.'
Once she had come to terms with her size, Elizabeth began to look to her screen siren idol for further inspiration.
'While all the girls at school wanted to be like the pencil-thin popstars, I thought it was too fake and admired real women like Marilyn Monroe.
'I remember first seeing pictures of her and realising how naturally gorgeous she was. Seeing her helped me realise it was ok to be a bigger woman.
'For me she's the perfect woman as she's a radiant, curvy woman and down to earth.
'She made me realise if she was successful as a larger woman, why couldn't I do the same - I'm happy being curvy and confident.
'I always admired her and used her as my role model to beat the bullies.'
For Elizabeth the bullying started  at primary school when she was nine years old  - she was overweight and was often teased by other children.
Her parents, Julie, 52, and Jerry, 61, tried to help her lose weight by keeping a food diary but in between meals Elizabeth began secretly snacking.
Even ex-partners would try to force her to lose weight, with one demanding that she attended gym classes.
But after discovering plus-sized modelling she's been determined to defy those who have called her fat in the past.
Elizabeth added: 'I really hated school because of the bullying, I used to come home crying all the time.
'When people weren't saying things in front of me they would always make snide comments about my weight behind my back.
'At school I used to love swimming but after the teasing I didn't want to put my costume on in front of others in case they ridiculed me.
'Even recently people have shouted things like, 'you fat cow' - but now I'm older and wiser, I've learned to take it on the chin.
'The taunts got so bad that at points I was too upset to leave the house.
'When I was younger I used to hate it, it even got to the point where I was scared to walk past fast food restaurants in case someone made a comment.'
Elizabeth added that being overweight meant that people often assumed that she was lazy.
She said: 'People think if you're fat you sit at home all day eating junk food, but I have four jobs at three local pubs as well as my telesales role.
'I also work in a pub on my feet all evening, did hair dressing and volunteer at my local cricket team so have very active roles.
'In the past I've been asked to leave beauty salons because I "didn't have the right look".
'Over time I realised I've nothing to be ashamed of and shouldn't hide away.
'I'm a happy curvy woman with lots of confidence and am really down to earth - anyone who doesn't like me isn't worth my time.'
Elizabeth first discovered plus-size pageants in 2013 after seeing large models battle it out on a TV documentary.
From there she applied to the Miss Plus Size International competition and was soon invited for an interview.
She wowed judges with her personality and made it through to the next stage  in Bournemouth in December.
Elizabeth said: 'I didn't even think I'd get past the initial application, it was something I thought I'd do for fun.
'People may look at me and think I'm promoting obesity and being unhealthy, but equally stick-thin models can promote anorexia and bulimia.
'For me I'm naturally big and have tried to slim down, I'm sure it's the same for thin smaller models struggling to get bigger.'
Elizabeth added that she has no inhibitions when it comes to competing in beauty pageants.
'I tried to show off my personality and humour in the answers, like saying the reason why I was applying was because I was too fat to enter Miss World,' she said.
'With me there's no filters, I am who I am, I want to show my confidence and my body. I'm not skinny at all but I'm happy and that's what I want to show.
'I want people to see me and think she's doing fantastic, she's confident and happy, which is what real beauty is.'

