One Stillbirth Greatly Raises Odds for Another: Study – WebMD


By Steven Reinberg
HealthDay Reporter

WEDNESDAY, June 24, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Women who've had one stillbirth have a four times higher risk of having another stillbirth compared to women who've had a live birth, British researchers report.
The researchers noted that the overall risk of stillbirth is low. The review included millions of pregnant women, and fewer than 1 percent had a stillbirth. In a subsequent pregnancy, only 2.5 percent of women who'd experienced a previous stillbirth had another stillbirth, the study found.
"Despite the higher risk of recurrence, most pregnancies following a stillbirth will progress normally and end in the birth of a healthy baby," said lead researcher Dr. Sohinee Bhattacharya, a lecturer at the Institute of Applied Health Sciences at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland.
The researchers defined stillbirth as a fetal death at more than 20 weeks' gestation or a weight at time of death of at least 14 ounces (400 grams), according to the study. A death before 20 weeks is considered a miscarriage.
For the study, Bhattacharya and colleagues analyzed 16 studies that included almost 3.5 million pregnant women. All the women were from high-income countries, including Australia, Scotland, the United States, Denmark, Israel, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.
Among the women, 99.3 percent had a previous live birth and 0.7 percent had a stillbirth in an initial pregnancy. Stillbirths occurred in the subsequent pregnancy for 2.5 percent of women who had a previous stillbirth and in 0.4 percent of women with no history of stillbirth, the researchers found.
Twelve of the studies included in the review looked specifically at the risk of a stillbirth after a first one. Those studies revealed a four times increase in the risk of a second stillbirth, the researchers said.
What experts don't always know is why stillbirths occur -- whether it's a first or later pregnancy, Bhattacharya said.
"We know very little about these unexplained stillbirths even today," she said. "There are many systems that try to assign a cause of stillbirth, but with all of them, 10 percent to 40 percent remain unexplained."