http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3186685/Ovarian-cancer-patients-given-glimmer-hope-watchdog-considers-giving-access-revolutionary-new-drug.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Ovarian cancer patients given a 'glimmer of hope' with new drug | Daily Mail Online

Patients with ovarian cancer were yesterday offered a glimmer of hope that they may be given access to a revolutionary new drug.
Olaparib – a treatment which extends the lives of ovarian cancer patients by an average 11 months - has been repeatedly refused NHS funding since it was licensed last December.
But yesterday English rationing watchdog Nice - the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence - said it might consider making the drug available for women who have already undergone three rounds of chemotherapy.
If Nice makes that decision when it issues its final guidance late this year, up to 600 women with life-threatening cancer could benefit.
Scientists and patients say the drug, the first in a revolutionary new class of treatments developed in British universities, has been proven to be safe and effective.
The drug works for women who have the BRCA cancer gene, carried by actress Angelina Jolie.
Some women who take the drug may even live for an extra five years and beyond, clinical trial data shows.
The treatment, which has been developed by UK pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca, was licensed for use anywhere in the EU in December, following promising results in clinical trials.
It is already being taken by patients in Germany, France, Sweden, the Netherlands and the US.
But no patients in Britain are able to access the drug, after three different NHS organisations complained that £4,000 a month, it is too expensive.
The Cancer Drugs Fund, which was set up in 2011 specifically to pay for expensive, cutting edge cancer treatments, has refused to fund it.
The Scottish Medicines Consortium, which recommends drugs in NHS Scotland, has also turned it down.
And Nice said in draft guidance issued in June that hospitals should not pay for the drug.
But in a revised draft report published today, Nice shifted its position after receiving new data from AstraZeneca.
The board continues to insist the drug should not be made available for women who have only undergone one or two rounds of chemotherapy.
But, in a rare concession, it has asked for further information about women who have undergone three rounds.
If they decide to approve it for this group, about 60 per cent of patients might gain access to the drug.
Experts last night welcomed the shift - but said it is ‘illogical’ to exclude patients from earlier access to the drug.
Professor Paul Workman, chief executive of the Institute of Cancer Research in London, said: ‘This announcement offers a glimmer of hope that some women with ovarian cancer will eventually get access to olaparib.
‘Nice has opened the door to a more open conversation. It is not where we would like to be ideally, but it is better than it was before.’
Olaparib is the first of a series of revolutionary new cancer drugs called PARP inhibitors, developed by researchers in Sheffield, Cambridge and London over the last 20 years.
These exploit a weakness in cancer cells’ defence – zeroing in on their ‘Achilles heel’ to kill a tumour without harming healthy cells.
In trials, olaparib was shown to extend life by an average 11 months for women who have already received a round of platinum chemotherapy, with some patients living for up to five years with the drug.
People who took a placebo, or dummy treatment, only lived for an average of four months.
Nice chief executive Sir Andrew Dillon said: ‘Olaparib slows the progression of the disease for patients with some forms of ovarian cancer but the evidence that it can extend life is uncertain.
‘Life expectancy for patients who’ve had three or more courses of platinum-based chemotherapy could be less than two years so the end-of-life criteria, which allows more flexibility in our guidance could apply in this situation.
‘Our advisory committee has therefore asked the company to provide a robust estimate of the cost effectiveness of olaparib for these patients, along with further information on supporting data.’
Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cancer in women, with 7,000 new cases in Britain each year.
People who have BRCA1 or 2 gene mutations have an increased risk of developing it.
Katherine Taylor, acting chief executive of Ovarian Cancer Action, said: ‘Olaparib is a good example of personalised medicine and the first breakthrough treatment for these women in years.
‘To deny them access is simply unacceptable. Today’s Nice recommendation is a step in the right direction for women who have had three rounds of chemotherapy but it is not enough.
‘Hundreds of patients with a BRCA gene mutation, facing their first ovarian cancer recurrence, still won’t be able to access this life-prolonging treatment.’
Professor Peter Johnson, chief clinician at Cancer Research UK, said: ‘Olaparib has shown real promise in trials for women with this type of cancer, where it can target the molecular causes of the disease.
‘Our ovarian cancer survival lags behind the rest of the developed world, and if this is to improve the NHS must be in a position to fund new drugs like this.
‘We hope that Nice and the drug manufacturer can work together to ensure olaparib is approved and funded quickly for all women who could benefit.’
