
Swinging gently in a hammock and wandering through a wheat field, these stunning photos might look like something taken from a glossy magazine but instead, they show breastfeeding mothers.
Released to mark World Breastfeeding Week, which concludes today, the striking images are the work of photographer Tammy Nicole.
Ms Nicole worked with 30 different women and their newborn children to produce the pictures and hopes they will counter the negative debate surrounding breastfeeding in public.
Scroll down for video
'Breastfeeding photography is very special to me,' explained the 30-year-old. 'Breastfeeding is something completely natural but there seems to be a huge debate around it, like where to feed your baby, for how long or even if it's right at all.
'This week has been important to remind everyone that breastfeeding is a natural thing and only mums should decide what is best for them and their babies.'
Ms Nicole, who was born in Buenos Aires but is now based in Munich, said she asked mothers not to feed their children for two hours before the 15-minute photoshoots.


Having trained as a family portrait photographer, the 30-year-old started focusing on motherhood in April and says there is nothing she loves photographing more.
'I had been wanting to photograph mothers for a long time,' she explains. 'I realised there was nothing I loved photographing more.
'Breastfeeding is one of those things in life you cannot seem to find the correct words to describe how it makes you feel.
'The feeling during the first session I ever did was overwhelming. I felt as though I had found my calling.'
The new photos are part of a collection called Walks of Motherhood which charts the infants as they grow and ends when they leave home.
'Walks of Motherhood follows mums along their journey, from the moment they are pregnant until their kids are no longer kids,' explains Ms Nicole.
'My clients understand that I can make not only a technically beautiful image, but that there are feelings captured in my photos.
'And that's what mums ask me to do. They want the feelings and emotions between them and their children immortalised in a photo.'