http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3185159/Woman-18-body-physically-144-years-old-fatal-genetic-condition-joins-eight-year-old-sufferer-undergo-new-drug-trial-hopes-finding-cure.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Progeria sufferer, 18, to undergo new drug trial in the hopes of finding a cure | Daily Mail Online

An 18-year-old woman who is trapped in an old and wrinkled body that is physically 144-years-old has begun drug testing for the extremely rare and fatal genetic condition that is causing her to rapidly age.
Ana Rochelle Pondare, from Manila, Philippines, was diagnosed with progeria when she was five-years-old. The incurable disease, which affects just one in every four million people, has an average life expectancy of 14-years-old; at 18, Ana is already one of the oldest progeria patients in the world.
The bubbly teenager and her family appear on the TLC series Body Bizarre this week in a new episode that documents her journey to Massachusetts to take part in an international research trial, alongside fellow sufferer, Kim, who is eight-years-old, as medical experts seek to find a way to prolong, if not save, their lives.

The trial for a new drug called Lonafarnib is being carried out by the Progeria Research Foundation and Boston Children's Hospital, where Anna has undergone several medical tests and met other children suffering from progeria, including Kim, who is also from the Philippines.
Progeria is formed by a genetic mutation which causes the cells of a patient's body to malfunction, effecting the tissues and organs, and prompting children to age dramatically.
According to the Progeria Research Foundation, there are 80 children around the world who have progeria, with only two reported cases in the Philippines – Ana and Kim.

Ana has stopped growing and lost her hair, but she wears bandanas and wigs when she is working at her family's market stall or going out with friends.
While in Boston, Ana and Kim wore matching blue plaid dresses while they posed for pictures together.
Although Ana has spent much of her time recently focusing on the trial, her upcoming episode of the TLC series also highlights a milestone event for the teenager.
The episode, which airs on Thursday night, also features footage from her 18th birthday celebration, a huge event in any girl’s life, but particularly for Ana.

On average, children suffering from progeria die of heart disease when they are 14-years-old, however, Ana bravely continues to defy the odds.
In celebration of her miraculous milestone birthday, Ana had a princess-themed party complete with an enormous throne.
Ana had three outfit changes during the momentous event, including red gown featuring a rhinestone encrusted bodice and a peach dress decorated with fabric flowers.
In April, progeria sufferer Hayley Okines, from East Sussex, England, died from the condition at the age of 17.
While raising awareness for the rare disorder, Hayley starred in documentaries called The Girl who is Older than Her Mother and World's Oldest Teenager: Extraordinary People.
As of July, there are 125 identified children living with progeria in 43 countries, according to the Progeria Research Foundation.


