http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3145189/Deadly-legacy-trying-appear-seductive-1970s-Record-numbers-women-suffering-lung-cancer-lured-smoking-adverts.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Record numbers of women have lung cancer after adverts lured them into smoking | Daily Mail Online

They were lured to start smoking in their thousands by advertisements that promised to make them look glamorous and independent.
Now record numbers of women are suffering the legacy of 1970s commercials – and tragically are developing lung cancer.
Figures show there are more than 20,000 new cases a year, with rates increasing by a fifth in the past 20 years.
Experts blame attitudes in the 1970s when professional women smoked as a way of appearing attractive and liberated, as well as a means of staying slim.
Many were taken in by advertisements insisting that cigarettes would make them more successful, happier and help keep the weight off.
For example, the slogan for Lucky Strike cigarettes was ‘Reach For A Lucky Instead Of A Sweet’, while Misty advertisements bore the catchphrase ‘Slim N Sassy’.
Although smoking rates have fallen in recent years, cases of lung cancer in women are expected to continue to rise because the disease can take many years to develop.
Figures from Cancer Research UK show that there were 20,483 new cases in 2012, the highest since records began in 1979.
And rates have increased by 22 per cent since 1993, up from 53 cases per 100,000 to 65 per 100,000.
The new figures also show that lung cancer rates in men have continued to fall since the 1970s down from 110 cases per 100,000 to 55 cases per 100,000.
This is because smoking rates peaked in men in the 1940s, around 30 years earlier than in women, who then became the target of advertising campaigns.
Sadly the illness has one of the lowest survival rates of all cancers, and only five per cent of patients can expect to live for ten years. This means it is the biggest cancer-killer in the UK, claiming the lives of 16,000 women and 20,000 men every year.
Researchers are now making it their priority to develop new treatments and techniques to diagnose the illness sooner, before it spreads to other organs.
Only yesterday the Government announced that thousands of patients would have access to a breakthrough jab that teaches the body to attack cancerous cells.
Professor Caroline Dive, a lead scientist on the project to develop new treatment and diagnosis at Cancer Research UK’s Manchester Institute, said: ‘It really is devastating to see that the number of women diagnosed with lung cancer continues to climb.
‘We also know survival remains poor and one of the problems is that lung cancer tends to be diagnosed at a late stage when it has already spread.
‘Cancer is very difficult to treat once it has spread around the body.’
She said researchers were looking at a new technique to assess tumours once patients had been diagnosed which would enable them to offer more appropriate and effective treatments.
Nell Barrie, also from Cancer Research UK, said: ‘It’s vital that we keep on fighting against lung cancer.
‘It’s the biggest cancer-killer in the UK so the Government and the health service must work to help smokers quit by providing more stop smoking services to help people give up this deadly addiction.
‘If you smoke, the best thing you can do for your health is stop. It’s also essential to invest in new techniques to improve treatment for patients.’
Separate figures show that smoking rates in women peaked in the mid-1970s at 41 per cent.
Today the figure stands at just 17 per cent.
Many women believed that cigarettes were a sign of sophistication that also suppressed the appetite.
Several brands targeted themselves directly at women including Virginia Slims, which used the slogan, ‘You’ve come a long way, baby’.
Many companies described their products as ‘slims’, partly because the cigarettes were thinner and seemed more elegant than men’s but also to emphasise how they could help women keep their weight down.