http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3184945/Lucky-number-13-Father-died-HOUR-finally-revived-12-electric-shocks-failed.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Scunthorpe man whose heart stopped for an HOUR is revived by 13 electric shocks | Daily Mail Online

For almost an hour doctors worked to revive him.
But David Lines lay motionless after his heart stopped, the result of his suffering a cardiac arrest at home.
The 35-year-old, from Scunthorpe, was putting the bins out when he collapsed, only to be found when his wife, Michelle, 33, went outside.
After Mrs Lines called paramedics, she and a neighbour attempted to resuscitate her stricken husband.
She watched in horror as an ambulance crew administered the first of what would be 13 electric shocks to Mr Lines' heart in a bid to wake him.
While the father-of-two was aware he had a genetic heart condition, which prevents the organ pumping properly, it does not usually cause cardiac arrests.
Doctors said there was less than a 10 per cent chance of survival if his heart had stopped for 30 minutes.
But Mr Lines' heart stopped beating for almost an hour, and it took 13 electric shocks to bring him back to life, followed by another six days to regain consciousness.
Despite his miraculous escape, doctors informed Mrs Lines her husband could still face significant brain damage from oxygen deprivation to his brain.
Mr Lines said: 'The doctors told me that I could have brain damage. It could have led to me getting angry or depressed but I haven't felt that happen.
'I don't remember what happened at all and I don't recall that week at all.
'I am worried it will happen again, but I am on the mend now and I am on medication which will hopefully keep it away.
'The doctors took an X-ray of my chest and were surprised that I didn't have any broken ribs after all the compressions I had.'
Mrs Lines said watching the paramedics attempt to save her husband was a gruelling experience.
'David was still breathing when I found him and I have never seen anyone so frightened,' she said.
'A neighbour heard the commotion and took over with CPR. His wife and son looked after me. It felt like forever for the ambulance to come.
'I don't know how long they took to come it could have been minutes or it could have been 30 seconds.
'I remember thinking that he was dead because his eyes were wide open and there was no response. I kept saying that he had gone.
'A friend of the family happened to be working that night and came to tell me that we had him back and she took me through to his room.
'I wanted to feel relief, but he had been gone for such a long time.
Mr Lines is now recovering at home after he was transferred to Leeds Hospital six days after collapsing.
Dr Jerry Thomas, consultant anaesthetist at Scunthorpe General Hospital said that not only was Mr Lines' experience so rare, it was remarkable he managed to recover.
Dr Thomas said: 'You can never predict how things will pan out with someone with that kind of a down time.
'If someone is down for more than half-an-hour it is not good as the brain takes a hit in these cases. The chance of survival is less than 10 per cent.
'His condition is not something that we see commonly and not many of those affected will suffer a cardiac arrest.
'His recovery is astonishing and the case is going to be discussed in a conference in America next year because it is so rare.'
Mr Lines has now been fitted with a defibrillator to prevent any further cardiac arrests.
A cardiac arrest happens when the heart stops pumping blood around your body.
The most common cause of a cardiac arrest is a life threatening abnormal heart rhythm called ventricular fibrillation (VF).
Ventricular fibrillation happens when the electrical activity of your heart becomes so chaotic that the heart stops pumping and quivers or 'fibrillates' instead.
Someone who is having a cardiac arrest will suddenly lose consciousness and will stop breathing or stop breathing normally.
Unless immediately treated by CPR this always leads to death within minutes.
It is possible to survive and recover from a cardiac arrest, with the right treatment.
Ventrivular fibrillation - which causes an arrest - can sometimes be corrected by giving an electric shock through the chest wall, by using a device called a defibrillator.
Source: British Heart Foundation
