
When her teenage daughter began to complain of searing headaches, Carol Smith put them down to PMS.
Georgia, 13, had just started her periods when the debilitating pain began in January.
So intense was the pain, it caused the teenager to projectile vomit, leading doctors to diagnose her as suffering migraines.
But, months later, after being admitted to hospital, Georgia was diagnosed with hydrocephalus - a build-up of fluid on the brain.
And doctors told her parents they feared she had suffered a stroke.
The schoolgirl is now recovering at home in Lowedges, Sheffield, after undergoing rounds of emergency surgery.
Her mother, 43, said: 'Georgia and I both thought the headaches might be a sign of her period starting, but when that second headache didn't go away, I started to worry.
'A few days later, she was still bad and throwing up constantly. She was projectile vomiting, covering everything from her bed to curtains.
'She kept saying, "Mummy, help me, please. My head, my head". It broke my heart. If I could have taken the pain for her, I would have.'
After the first sign of pain in January, Georgia's headaches returned in March.

Doctors thought she was suffering from a migraine and she was sent home with painkillers and anti-nausea tablets.
But days later she started feeling worse, and with each day the teenager's condition worsened.
'Georgia was in a state all weekend,' Mrs Smith said. 'On the Monday our GP organised an emergency appointment with a neurologist at Sheffield Children's Hospital.
'Two days later she was admitted to the hospital in agonising pain.
'I was on my own – my husband Robert, 47, works nights.
'The doctor took me off to a side-room and said Georgia needed a lumbar puncture and an MRI.
'When I heard the words 'lumbar puncture' I just collapsed. I fell apart. I rang Robert and told him to get to the hospital immediately.'
At this point, Georgia was exhausted, still being sick constantly and suffering a severe reaction to light.
'She was wearing her gold eye-mask with eyelashes on it all the time,' her mother continued. 'She just couldn't bear the light.
'As for the head pains, they were so bad I was doing breathing exercises with her, like you do with someone who is in labour.
'As soon as I saw the nurse after Georgia's scan I knew it was bad news.
Hydrocephalus is a build-up of fluid on the brain, causing pressure to be exerted.
Damage to the brain as a result, can cause
The condition is usually treated by surgeons inserted a shunt.
The thin tube is surgically implanted into the brain to drain away the excess fluid.
But, if left untreated hydrocephalus can be fatal.
The brain is surrounded by a special fluid, called cerebrospinal fluid.
It protects the brain from damage, removes waste products from the brain and provides the brain with the nutrients it needs to function properly.
The brain constantly produces new CSF - around a pint a day - while old fluid is released and absorbed in the blood vessels.
But, if this process is interrupted, the level of CSF can quickly build-up, placing pressure on the brain, causing hydrocephalus.
Source: NHS Choices
'I could tell by the look in her eyes as she walked towards me.
'It was one of the most surreal moments of my life.'
Mrs Smith was seen by a doctor, who told her Georgia had contracted hydrocephalus.
But the worst news was to come - they feared the 13-year-old had also suffered a stroke.
'I couldn't believe what I was hearing,.' Mrs Smith recalled. 'My little girl had been dancing around the living room a week earlier, practising her latest routine.
'I fell into Robert's arms and we just sobbed together.
'Robert fell apart. He had a car accident aged six and hated being in hospitals. To see his little girl in there was just killing him.'
The teenager was taken to theatre for a four-hour operation to have an emergency drain put in her head, which was a success.
Further operations were needed to install a permanent shunt into her brain to drain the fluid that was in there.

At the end of March, after three MRI scans, four CT scans, two major brain operations and 19 days in hospital, Georgia was finally sent home to recover.
Georgia had always wanted to be a dance teacher, but following her stay in hospital, she now wants to become a neurology nurse.
'She's keeping a diary of every little thing she went through including medical reports and pictures,' her mother said.
'When it is finished she plans to show it to people to explain what she went through and remind herself how far she's come.'

Georgia has been given the all-clear, and the family are off to Skegness this August, where they have gone for their holidays every year since Georgia was a baby.
'We can't wait,' Mrs Smith said. 'Our little girl is happy, healthy and she's already back dancing with Spotlight Dance Troupe.
'As we like to say, she's not so much getting there as "getting back to being Georgia".'
The family are now raising money to support the Children's Hospital.
Gemma Bower, community fundraiser at Sheffield's Children's Hospital, said: 'Getting back into dancing so soon after her treatment just shows how determined Georgia is.
'We are so pleased she chose to fundraise for us to thank the hospital for taking care of her, because every penny raised will help transform the hospital with world-class facilities.'
