http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3186146/Always-got-cold-Blame-brood-children-Families-six-children-sick-45-weeks-year-compared-three-no-offspring.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Six children families are sick 45 weeks a year compared to childless ones | Daily Mail Online

People in large families are likely to fall ill with cold and flu far more frequently than those in smaller families, researchers have found.
A team of scientists monitored 26 households for an entire year.
They found that families with several children were more likely to fall ill with colds, flu and other viral infections.
The data supports the theory that youngsters are ‘super-spreaders’ who are likely to infect several other people every time they fall ill.
The British Government is trying to tackle this problem by offering a nasal flu vaccine to school pupils.
They hope their plan, which was piloted among 700,000 children last winter in the biggest immunisation programme for 30 years, will stop older, more vulnerable people getting ill.
The new study, led by the Utah Centre for Clinical and Translational Science, tracked 108 individuals.
Of those, people living in childless households were infected with viruses on average three to four weeks during the year.
In households with one child, that number jumped to 18 weeks, and for those with six children, there was virus in the household for up to 45 weeks out of the year.
The study, published in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, suggest that toddlers and other small children are the main culprits.
Children younger than five had at least one virus living in their nose for 50 per cent of the year, twice as often as older children and adults.
And when infected, they were 1.5 times more likely to have symptoms, including severe ones like wheezing and fever.
Their parents fell ill 1.5 times more frequently than adults of the same age who did not live with young children.
Professor Carrie Byington, who led the research, said: ‘A lot families go through wave after wave of illness. In fact, some of the kids we monitored had symptoms for 20 to 25 weeks in a row.
‘This study helps us to understand what is normal in young children, and can help us determine when illness should be a cause for concern.’
The team were surprised that on many occasions people were carrying viruses, but showed no sign of falling ill.
Participants infected with flu were sick most of the time.
But those who carried rhinovirus - the cause of the common cold - were only sick half of the time.
The researchers said that this might mean that if someone is sick and tests positive for a specific virus, there could be another cause.
Co-author professor Krow Ampofo said: ‘If a child comes into the emergency room with severe respiratory illness and tests positive for rhinovirus, it might be a smart idea for doctors to make sure they’re not missing something else that could be the cause.’
