Stephen Hawking film helps Motor Neurone Disease man diagnose HIMSELF | Daily Mail Online


Staring up at the big screen Paul Whyley could not believe his eyes.
As he and his wife enjoyed the Stephen Hawking biopic, The Theory of Everything, the 62-year-old's joy turned to shock.
Unravelling before his eyes were the symptoms he himself had been suffering.
Silently, Mr Whyley ticked off all the signs of motor neurone disease, as the plot of the romantic drama starring Eddie Redmayne progressed.
The grandfather began to fear the worst, but refrained from worrying his wife of 40 years, Jayne, 59.
Such was his concern, as soon as he left the cinema, Mr Whyley, from Hagley, Worcestershire, made an appointment to see his GP.
Until then, doctors had been baffled as to what was wrong with him.
But in March, after watching the hit film, he shared his fears - he suspected the debilitating brain disease.

Mr Whyley was sent for hospital tests and within two weeks was given the earth-shattering confirmation, he did have the same debilitating condition as Professor Hawking.
Mr Whyley, a retired blind-fitter, said: 'We went to see The Theory of Everything just two weeks before my diagnosis.
'There's a scene at the start where Stephen Hawking is running and he suddenly falls over, and I'd had a few falls at work recently.
'Then he's writing on a blackboard, but he can't reach with his right arm.
'With my job I had to use a drill to put up blinds, but I was having to put my right arm into position with my left because I couldn't use my right arm.
'I knew for sure after the scene where they list all the symptoms. I just thought "I've got all of them".
'They said a floppy foot is a tell-tale sign of the disease, and I'd just started getting that.
'But I said nothing - it was a good film.'
Mr Whyley, who has also read Hawking's book, 'A Brief History of Time', said he had been 'as fit as a fiddle', but began suffering from pain in his right shoulder and had breathing difficulties in November.
He had been seeing his GP for a couple of months before going to the cinema, but the doctors weren't able to say what was wrong with him.
After the film the grandfather-of-four realised how serious his illness was and knew he needed help.
There was a lengthy wait to see a neurologist, so he went straight to a specialist at West Midlands Private Hospital in Halesowen instead.
Motor neurone disease (MND) is a progressive disease that attacks the motor neurones, or nerves, in the brain and spinal cord.
It means messages gradually stop reaching the muscles, which leads to weakness and wasting.
MND can affect how you walk, talk, eat, drink and breathe.
Not all symptoms affect every patient, and it is unlikely they will develop at the same time.
While there is currently no cure for MND, the symptoms can often be managed to help patients achieve the best possible quality of life.
Symptoms include:
Source: Motor Neurone Disease Association
Specialists performed a nerve test at Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital and was told he had motor neurone disease on March 18 - but still had to wait six weeks to confirm the results.
The rare condition progressively damages parts of the nervous system, destroying muscles until walking, speaking, swallowing and breathing becomes impossible.
Mrs Whyley, a retired GP practice administrator, who shares the same name as Professor Hawking's wife played by Felicity Jones in the film, said: 'It's a vile, evil disease.
'It's frightening and has come as such a shock to us.
'We'd got a normal life - everything was fine and we were both looking forward to retirement.
'But this has hit us so suddenly and now I am looking after Paul 24/7 and we don't even have a downstairs bathroom.
'I want to raise awareness about just how rapid and devastating this disease is.
'A lot of people think of Stephen Hawking when they hear motor neurone disease mentioned, but he's not like most people.
'Over the last three months my husband has gone downhill so quickly.
'He has a private piloting licence and was very active - now I have to bathe him.
'He can't walk, he can't use his right arm, and he has a machine to clear his lungs because he can't even cough for himself.
'We love cars and motorbikes and we are hoping to make Silverstone this weekend but I don't know if we'll make it.'
Mr and Mrs Whyley met when they started working together on their local paper in the early 1970s, and they instantly fell in love.
They recently celebrated their ruby wedding anniversary with a trip to the Forest of Dean in Gloucestershire with their two daughters, Lauren and Heather, and four grandchildren.
Stephen Hawking has famously defied the odds and has lived with the disease for over 50 years, but doctors believe Mr Whyley's days could be numbered.
As he doesn't have the money or the hi-tech resources of Professor Hawking, with his voice machine and electric wheelchair, his sister-in-law Glynis Palmer is raising funds herself.
She wants to get enough money to install a stair lift in his house and get him a motorised wheelchair, as the NHS can't provide them for Paul.
Ms Palmer, 63, from Pedmore, in Stourbridge, West Midlands, said: 'I was totally shocked - devastated - when Paul was diagnosed.
'Paul and Jayne are still as in love as when they met and this is tragic.
'We haven't set a fundraising target but just want to raise as much as we can to help make their lives easier.'
Chris James, director of external affairs for Motor Neurone Disease Association, said the Hawking's biopic had played an important part in raising awareness of the condition.
He added: 'We were involved from the very start with the production of The Theory of Everything and it has been an incredibly powerful tool for raising awareness of motor neurone disease globally.
'The production team and the actors made every effort to research details about living with MND across many decades.
'It was fantastic that Eddie Redmayne in particular was recognised for his performance showing the physical impact of MND with an Academy Award for Best Actor.
'Eddie spent time with people living with MND and his portrayal was extremely accurate.
'Our Patron Professor Stephen Hawking continues to be an amazing ambassador but for many people life with MND can be very short indeed as it is usually a very rapidly progressing disease.
'More than half of people with MND die within two years of diagnosis.
'We do all we can to support people like Paul living with MND in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
'We campaign to improve waiting times and care for people with MND and we also fund research globally to find out more about this devastating disease, and ultimately find a cure.'
Ms Palmer has organised a summer fete at a school to raise money and the couple are are also being assessed for grants from the Motor Neurone Disease Association.
Anyone wishing to donate can visit her fundraising page here.