

By Valerie DeBenedette
HealthDay Reporter

THURSDAY, June 25, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Migraine surgery may be an effective choice for teens who haven't gotten relief from standard treatment, a small study suggests.
In the study, researchers at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in Cleveland reviewed the medical records of 14 patients, with an average age of 16.
In teens with migraine who haven't responded well to other treatments, "migraine surgery may offer symptomatic improvement of migraine headache frequency, duration and severity in patients with identifiable anatomical trigger sites," wrote the study's authors.
However, at least one headache expert questioned the value of the procedure, citing a possible placebo effect.
Results of the study were published in the June issue of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery.
Migraines are recurring bouts of moderate to severe head pain, according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health. As many as 8 percent of children and teens experience migraines, according to background information in the study.
Options for treating migraine in teens include over-the-counter pain relievers, the nasal medication sumatriptan (Imitrex), and a preventive medication called topiramate, according to the study authors. A previous study found that nearly one-quarter of teens treated still had migraines after treatment.
The current study looked at whether or not surgery might be an effective option for these teens.
The surgery involved is actually a plastic surgery procedure that decompresses a nerve or releases a trigger point that is believed to cause the migraine. The surgery was developed after doctors noticed that migraine patients who underwent certain cosmetic procedures, such as a forehead lift, had fewer headaches afterward, according to the study's lead author, Dr. Bahman Guyuron, an emeritus professor of plastic surgery at Case Western. Guyuron developed the techniques used in the migraine surgery.
There are several sites in the head and face that are considered common trigger sites for migraines, Guyuron said. Before surgery, patients are asked to keep a diary of their migraine symptoms and to note where headaches start. The trigger site can also be confirmed either by injecting a small amount of local anesthetic at the site to see if a migraine eases up or by using a Doppler ultrasound device to check blood vessels that might be impinging on nerves.