Teenager overcomes crippling scoliosis spinal condition to become a model | Daily Mail Online

A teenage girl who felt like 'the Hunchback of Notre Dame' and spent years in searing pain due to a spinal disorder has defied expectations to become a model.
Tamara Sharpe, from Chelmsford, Essex, was diagnosed with scoliosis, a painful disease which results in abnormal twisting of the spine, when she was 13 years old.
As she grew, one shoulder became higher than the other, and she felt embarrassed and ashamed of her body, hiding her back away in baggy clothes and constantly comparing herself to other girls.
She had dreamed of becoming a ballet dancer, but her hopes were dashed as disease left her in agony.
By the time she was 16 her spine was so severely bent she could have ended up paralysed if she delayed having surgery.
After undergoing a series of major operations to straighten her spine, she is now working as a model and an actress, and wants to inspire other people with disabilities to follow their dreams.
Tamara, now 18, says her condition was first picked up when she was 13 by a dance teacher, who noticed one side of her back was higher than the other.
She said: 'Really, dancing saved my life.
'After my teacher pointed out the problem my mum took me to the doctor, and I was diagnosed with scoliosis.
'It can look really horrible - you get one shoulder higher than the other, one hip higher the other, and parts of your back stick out.
'It's not nice to look at, it's not pretty.
'I did actually call myself the hunchback of Notre Dame, because that's how it felt when I looked in the mirror.'
She had an operation to correct the curvature at 16-years-old, and by this time her spine was so curved it bent at a 65 degree angle.
She was taking painkillers on a daily basis, and doctors warned that if it had been left much longer, she could have ended up paralysed.
She said: 'When I first found out I was told the curve on my spine was 30 degrees, but I had to wait until I was 16 to have an operation as it depends on how you grow.
'It usually comes around in teenage years, brought on by hormone changes. I first noticed I had a problem with my hips when I was in ballet class doing kicks they started clicking as I moved.

'I went to the physio and he found my feet were turning in as well.
'It was very painful, it affected me really badly. My confidence was hit rock bottom.
'I was very self-conscious, everyday things like shopping were horrible because nothing would fit right.
'It was very frustrating, I would get very upset. I would just think to myself 'why am I not like other girls?'
Scoliosis is the abnormal curvature of the spine in an S-shape.
Signs include a visible curve in the spine, one shoulder or hip being more prominent than the other, clothes not handing properly and back pain.
Pain usually only affects adults with the condition.
In most cases, the cause of the scoliosis is not known but it can be caused by cerebral palsy and muscular dystrophy.
In the UK, scoliosis affects three to four children could of every 1,000.
It is also thought that as many as 70 per cent of over 65s have some degree of scoliosis.
It is more common in women than in men.
Most children with the condition do not require treatment as it is mild and corrects itself as the child grows.
However, in severe cases the child may need to wear a back brace until they stop growing.
Occasionally, a child needs surgery to straighten their spine.
In adults, it is usually too late to treat the condition with a back brace or surgery so treatment revolves around reducing pain.
Source: NHS Choices
As a result of the scoliosis, Tamara was  crippled by shyness and tried to hide her illness from her friends.
She said: 'When I found out I didn't tell anyone and I tried really hard to hide it, I was embarrassed and ashamed of my image.
'Being in a performing arts school and doing a lot of ballet, you wear a lot of tight clothing and I didn't want people to stare at me.
'I would wear baggy clothing to hide myself away, and when teachers told me to take it off I would stand at the back, and hope that no one noticed me.
'Teachers were very supportive when they knew what was wrong with me, but there wasn't a lot they could do.
Tamara was diagnosed with idiopathic scoliosis, which mean the cause of her scoliosis is unknown. Around eight out of 10 cases of scoliosis are idiopathic.
In Tamara's case, her spine was fused from T2 to L3 - which means all but two of her vertebrae, the bones in the spine that surround the spinal cord, had fused together.
She had an operation in September 2013 to remove ribs and deflate her left lung so that doctors were able to carry out a second operation on October 1 2013 to straighten her spine.
Surgeons put in two rods and screws into her back to straighten her spine.
Having the operation was a 'scary' experience, as she had to re-learn basic skills including how to eat and walk, she said.
'I wore a back brace for four months and had to sleep in a corset every night, which isn't ideal when you're 16,' she added.
'I was surprised at how supportive everyone was - I tried for so long to hide it, I didn't expect the reaction I got when I told my college friends after the operation.
'They skyped me nearly every day in hospital, and when I went back to college they would carry my bags for me.
The procedure means she is no longer in pain, but she has little flexibility and is unable to bend to touch her feet.
She said: 'Things like putting on my shoes can be difficult, but I deal with it. I can't bend that well and my flexibility isn't great, and I have spina bifida [a condition meaning she has a gap in her spine] in my bottom two discs so I still have to be careful.
'It can be a problem sometimes, but my life is so much better there's no curve at all now, my back is completely straight.'
Since having the operation, which was carried out at the National Orthopaedic Hospital in Portland Street, London, her life has changed dramatically.
'My confidence has improved drastically,' she said.
'I'm hardly in any pain at all now, the only problem I have is restrictions in day-to-day life.
'Having the operation was the best thing to happen to me before my flexibility was awful, my confidence was terrible, and I was in a lot of pain all the time, constantly on pain killers.
'It was a small price to pay - I'm just glad I'm not in constant pain anymore.
'In some ways dancing helped, because it made me stronger and built my muscles but in the end it was too much, it wasn't good for my back and I was in constant pain.
'Now, I've dropped the dancing side of things to focus more on acting and modelling.'
After having the surgery, Tamara was noticed by modelling agency Models of Diversity, which has greatly improved her confidence.
Models of Diversity, founded by Angel Sinclair, campaign for a wider range of models to be used in the fashion industry.
Tamara said: 'Angel's so lovely and so supportive, I love what she does it's such a great campaign.

'It's the first proper modelling job I've done and it's made me realise I'd really love it give it a go properly, alongside acting.
'It can be tough being a disabled model, but we want to show that anyone can be a model we can do whatever "able-bodied" people can do.
'There's more to me than a disability.'
Tamara, who has just finished her A Levels, has already been signed by another agency, and is also aspiring to become an actress.
She said: 'I still do a bit of dancing, but my career is heading down the path of acting and modelling.
'In some ways scoliosis has actually helped my acting - I love doing period dramas and they always have excellent postures, which is great for me.
'I'm up for anything though and I won't let it hold me back.'
