
A teenager  nearly starved herself to death after becoming obsessed with counting calories on a mobile phone app.
Beth O'Brien, 14, was a healthy size eight to ten before she decided to go on a New Year health kick.
But she became fixated with recording her calorie intake and within five months had developed crippling anorexia.
She was admitted to hospital and was fed through a nasal tube, but was astonishingly discharged when medics couldn't find her a much-needed inpatient bed.
Her desperate mother Fran, 37, said her consultant was forced to call each of the UK's 25 specialist units every day for six weeks to find her a space.
Miss O'Brien was eventually given a bed last week in a treatment centre 100 miles from her Bristol home, and her mother is calling for more help for young sufferers.
Her mother has chosen not to disclose her daughter's weight because it is feared that anorexics use such figures as a 'target' to fuel their obsessions.
Mrs O'Brien, a music teacher, from Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol, said: 'As a parent you feel utterly helpless.
'You have a child who is incredibly ill and the medication - the food - is sat right in front of them but you can't make the two come together.
'Beth absolutely refuses to eat.
'It's not that she won't eat - just that she can't eat. There is a voice in her head beating her up for thinking about eating. It's like living constantly with a bully in your head.
'At her worst she stopped eating almost totally.
'She would say "I don't have a problem, I'm too fat, I want to have a BMI of such-and-such".
'We were just playing this awful waiting game [for a bed] and with every day that passed anorexia was getting its claws deeper into Beth.'
Miss O'Brien was a healthy teenager who loved sport when she announced this January she wanted to eat more healthily.
Initially her family supported her new diet, but in a matter of weeks she started losing enormous amounts of weight.
Her mother, who has a daughter Victoria, 18, and son Hugo, eight months, noticed she was obsessively logging her calorie intake on an app on her mobile phone.
The once-bubbly teenager began to shut herself away in her room, exercising to YouTube videos and refusing to join her family for meals.
Eventually she was barely eating any food a day, with her weight plummeting further.
'She went from being a healthy BMI to severely underweight BMI,' her mother said.
'She was almost on the verge of collapse constantly because she was so exhausted by everything.
'She was holding mugs of boiling water to try to stay warm because she had no body fat to keep her warm whatsoever.'
Eventually Miss O'Brien saw her GP in April and was admitted to Bristol Children's Hospital in May, where she was fed through a nasal tube.
Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) began searching for an in-patient bed, but the family was told the service was 'at breaking point' and Miss O'Brien was added to a waiting list.
She was discharged home after 15 days - despite still being unable to eat - and Mrs O'Brien took over feeding her daughter through a tube at home.
'If she didn't have that tube, she genuinely might have died by now,' Mrs O'Brien said.
A consultant at Bristol's Southmead Hospital phoned every specialist unit around the UK everyday and a bed was found for Miss O'Brien at a centre in Maidenhead last week.
Mrs O'Brien is happy her daughter is finally getting the help she needs, but furious at the lack of facilities.
She said: 'It's frustrating, it's upsetting.
'It's also crazy because if you had a child with a broken leg and a doctor was having to phone around trying to find a bed there would be uproar.
Anorexia nervosa is a serious mental health condition. It is aneating disorder in which people keep their body weight as low as possible.
People with anorexia usually do this by restricting the amount of food they eat, making themselves vomit and exercising excessively.
The condition often develops out of an anxiety about body shape and weight that originates from a fear of being fat or a desire to be thin.
Many people with anorexia have a distorted image of themselves, thinking that they're fat when they're not.
Anorexia most commonly affects girls and women, although it has become more common in boys and men in recent years. On average, the condition first develops at around the age of 16 to 17.
People with anorexia often go to great lengths to hide their behaviour from family and friends by lying about what they have eaten, or by pretending to have eaten earlier.
Signs that someone may have anorexia or another eating disorder include:
Sources: NHS Choices
'Anorexia kills - 20 per cent of people with it die yet CAMHS are having to ring the 25 units every day hoping to find a bed which won't even be near us.
'This is a recognised mental illness and not about choice, dysfunction or attention seeking.
'If it were any physical illness Beth would not be sat here waiting and that needs to change. It is not acceptable.
'People within the system have said to me it's in meltdown, is totally inadequate and they just can't cope.'
A spokesperson for NHS England said: 'The NHS wants every patient to be treated quickly and safely but there is a high demand for eating disorder in-patient services.
'The Government's pledge of £150m to develop specialist community based eating disorder services over the next five years, will help to reduce the need for inpatient care and release capacity.'
A spokeswoman for North Bristol NHS Trust said: 'We are sorry that Ms O'Brien was unhappy with the support Beth received from the Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service (CAMHS) while she was a patient in Bristol Children's Hospital.
'CAMHS is currently commissioned to provide a very limited mental health liaison service to all patients in the children's hospital.
'Our CAMHS consultant has been working tirelessly to find a specialist acute bed for Beth, making calls in and out of hours to try and secure an appropriate place for her as soon as possible but unfortunately there are currently none available anywhere in the country.
'The team is also in daily contact with the family during this time.'
If you or someone you know is suffering an eating disorder, contact the charity beat for more information, support and guidance.