The bargain £6.50 sun cream that outshines one costing £158 | Daily Mail Online

With an endless array of sun creams on the shelves, ranging from bargain-basement options to the ridiculously expensive, FEMAIL puts six differently priced products to the test to evaluate their wearability, while dermatologist Dr Nick Lowe gives his expert verdict on the effectiveness of the ingredients. . .
A VERY PRICEY ONE
Sisley’s Sunleya Sunscreen Cream Broad Spectrum, SPF 50+, 50ml, £158
THE CLAIM: Combines cutting-edge solar filters for optimised protection. Prevents wrinkles, brown spots and dehydration. Leaves skin with a long-lasting tan.
EXPERT VERDICT: The moisturising ingredients — shea butter and glycerine — are very good, but a lot of the ingredients listed are very similar to those found in inexpensive sunscreens.
It also uses oxybenzone, an ingredient which appears less and less in European products after concerns were raised about allergies and also the possibility that it may disrupt hormone levels when absorbed into the body.
However, it remains an approved ingredient in the U.S.
MY VERDICT: There’s no denying this feels like a luxurious cream to put on. It smells citrusy and feels rich yet doesn’t clog the skin. But I could not, in a million years, justify spending this much on sunscreen.
2/5
FEELING STUNG
Shu Uemura UV Underbase Mousse, SPF 30, 64ml, £29
THE CLAIM: Offers sheer coverage for an even skin tone. Brightens skin using light-reflective particles. Reduces redness and treats enlarged pores.
EXPERT VERDICT: Contains organic ingredient titanium dioxide, which is oil-absorbing, so it feels nice and powdery on the skin.
And witch hazel is known to have a soothing effect.
MY VERDICT: This had a near-miraculous effect on my skin. It evened out my skin tone and left my face looking bright and healthy. By the end of the day, however, my eyes did start to sting.
4/5
RED ALERT
Eve Lom Daily Protection+, SPF 50, 50ml, £90
THE CLAIM: Boosts collagen production and moisturises. Contains exfoliating lactic acid.
EXPERT VERDICT: I have two concerns about this one. It contains lactic acid, which can gently lift dead skin cells but can also cause problems for sensitive skin. Like Sisley’s cream, it also contains oxybenzone, which has been linked to skin sensitivity.
MY VERDICT: The light cream soaked right into my skin and didn’t clog or leave it feeling greasy, but at £90 I would be too scared to use enough of it to protect my skin and would worry I’d burn.
1/5
TANGO TAN
Natura Bisse Diamond White, Oil-free Brilliant Sun Protection SPF 50, 30ml, £75
THE CLAIM: Fights the signs of premature ageing by preventing appearance of dark spots with the addition of de-pigmenting agent ellagic acid.
EXPERT VERDICT: Ellagic acid is a good antioxidant that can protect against ageing.
But this does not adhere to the European star rating (see box on the right) for UVA protection, so may not be as all-round robust as others products.
MY VERDICT: This has a slight tint to it and can be worn instead of foundation. But the coverage is very heavy and, on my pale skin, I looked just like I had been Tangoed. I definitely would not wear it.
1/5
SHINE-FREE
La Roche-Posay Anthelios 30 SPF Anti-shine, 50ml, £16
THE CLAIM: Provides protection against UVA and UVB rays. Contains spring water. For sensitive and sun-intolerant skin.
EXPERT VERDICT: La Roche-Posay is non-comedogenic so it won’t block pores, and it’s regarded as one of the best sunscreen brands on the market. It offers very high protection against UVA rays —which are responsible for dark spots and ageing.
MY VERDICT: A thin, lightweight liquid that soaked into the skin straight away. It left a slight white tinge which I could hide easily with make-up and I loved how matte it made my usually shiny skin.
4/5
SAFE... AND CHEAP!
Nivea Sun SPF 50, 200ml, £6.50
THE CLAIM: Immediate UVA-UVB protection. Water resistant.
EXPERT VERDICT: Comfortable to wear and a good formulation of ingredients including triazine, a chemical sunscreen which is very safe. A great all-rounder.
MY VERDICT: Light, non-greasy and was absorbed right into my skin without any white hue. Cannot fault it. Best of all, this is a brilliant bargain leaving me free to keep slathering it on with abandon.
5/5
HOW DOES SUN CREAM WORK?
‘Sun screens or creams stop the sun’s rays reaching the skin,’ says Dr Dev Shah, skin cancer surgeon and spokesman for the British Association of Dermatologists. ‘The ingredients work mainly by absorbing the rays using a chemical filter, like a sponge. Others act as a physical barrier.’
WHAT ARE UVA AND UVB?
‘Ultraviolet radiation from the sun is in three forms: UVA, UVB and UVC, though the latter doesn’t penetrate the Earth’s atmosphere,’ explains Dr Shah. ‘UVA is the main cause of wrinkling and premature ageing as it affects the collagen and elastin in the skin. UVB is the type which burns you. Recent evidence suggests that both cause skin cancer.’
WHAT IS SPF?
‘This means sun protection factor,’ says Dr Shah. ‘Wearing a lotion with SPF increases the time you can spend in the sun without burning. What factor you use depends on your skin type. If you usually burn after ten minutes, putting on factor ten theoretically means that you can spend ten times longer in the sun, so 100 minutes in that case.’
DOES SUN CREAM PROTECT AGAINST SKIN CANCER?
‘There is no single study proving that sun screen protects you from melanoma,’ says consultant dermatologist Dr Veronique Bataille. ‘But it is a reasonable assumption. We know those who use sun screens have fewer signs of sun damage.’
WHAT’S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SPF AND STAR RATINGS?
‘The SPF refers to the UVB protection and the 0-5 star ratings to the UVA protection,’ says Dr Shah. ‘Obviously, you need both. The best advice is to choose a high SPF and a four or five-star UVA rating’
HOW MUCH SHOULD I USE?
‘Most dermatologists recommend using between factor 30 and 50 because no one ever applies enough. Ideally, you ought to have it about 1mm thick for the SPF to really work,’ says Dr Shah.
‘I’d suggest you reapply every two hours and every half-hour if you are swimming or sweating.’
IS THERE ANYTHING TO AVOID?
‘Certain claims ring alarm bells with me,’ ‘The phrase “lasts 24 hours” doesn’t sound true. It has been banned in some countries because it’s misleading. “Waterproof” has also been banned, though it may be water resistant. By far the worst are products claiming to offer “safe tanning”. That suggests to me no UVA protection. Besides, there is no such thing as safe tanning.’
SHOULD BABIES USE THE SAME LOTION AS ADULTS?
‘Babies ought only to have reflective sun screens which sit on top of the skin and are far less likely to cause allergies,’ recommends Dr Bataille. ‘Look out for the ingredient titanium dioxide, which is less likely to cause contact dermatitis.’
