The foods that will give you a radiant glow in under a WEEK | Daily Mail Online

A super slim body and great skin, hair and nails are what we all want before we take off on holiday - particularly if we are heading to the beach.
And what about when we get back home?
A few too many hours in the sun and perhaps rather too much holiday overindulgence can result in our skin looking a bit over-cooked and our waistlines looking a bit over-generous.
Now, I have devised a Super Skin Diet which I recommend you follow for 3 to 7 days before and/or after your long-awaited summer break.
Scroll down for video
It not only offers up a whole bunch of nutrients to ensure your skin, hair and nails are in tip top condition but also ensures some very satisfying weight loss along the way - win, win!
Don't get me wrong, holidays are about having fun and feeling great, not about having to carefully watch everything we eat and drink.
But many of us are guilty of leaving things a little late to get the body beautiful looking at its best before we go.
Therefore, a few days (or more) on the Super Skin Diet can make a real difference and, as this diet is so easy to follow, you can leap back into it the minute you've unpacked the suitcase on your return.

YOUR DAILY DIET PLAN
AIM TO HAVE:
2 juices per day, plus:
2 small bowls/mugs of soup per day, plus
2 small servings of salad per day, plus
daily supplements (optional)
Sip, slurp and crunch every 2-3 hours to ensure you keep your blood sugar in balance and avoid hunger and cravings.
Flask your juices and soups and box your salads if you are taking them to work (see recipes).
First thing: Beta Carotene Cocktail
Every 2-3 hours throughout the day:
Spinach and Watercress Soup
or
Apple, Almond, Leek and Celery Soup
or
Omega 3 Salad
or
Energy Salad
40 Minutes Before Bed
Cherry Berry Booster
Drinks Throughout the Day
Still and/or sparkling water
Rose Hip Tea
Supplements
(optional and available in good health shops)
5g l-glutamine powder dissolved in a 500ml bottle of still water and sipped throughout the day (shake well before each sip)
2 Krill Oil capsules per day with food
And why these?
L-glutamine is an amino acid (part of a protein) which helps to reduce cravings for sugar and starchy carbohydrates, explains Ms Kirk. It also assists in the production of collagen.
Krill oil is rich in omega 3 fatty acids which keep skin cell membranes healthy and flexiblE.
RECIPES
BETA CAROTENE COCKTAIL
(Makes 1 serving)
Blitz 2 ice cubes, ½ yellow or orange pepper (de-seeded and chopped), ½ orange (peeled and chopped), the flesh of ¼ cantaloupe melon, 2 apricots (stoned and chopped) and 2 roughly torn cos lettuce leaves in a blender and whizz until smooth.
Add fresh carrot juice until you achieve your desired consistency.
CHERRY BERRY BOOSTER
(Makes 1 serving)
Place 2 ice cubes, 50g fresh blueberries, 15mls Cherry Active concentrate (available in good health shops and wholefood supermarkets), 60mls fresh apple juice, ½ tablespoon natural live/bio yoghurt and ½ tablespoon oats in a blender and whizz until smooth and frothy.
Add water until you achieve your desired consistency.
SPINACH AND WATERCRESS SOUP
(Makes 2 servings)
Warm 1 tablespoon light olive oil in a large soup pot and gently saute 1 small onion (peeled and finely chopped) until soft.
Add 500mls chicken or vegetable stock and ½ heaped tablespoon porridge oats, bring slowly to the boil, turn down the heat and simmer gently for 15 minutes.
Add 1 small bag spinach and ½ bag watercress and keep stirring whilst bringing the soup back to the boil then turn off the heat.
Blend the whole lot until you have a smooth, foamy soup then return to a clean pan.
Heat through gently, add a good squeeze of lemon juice and check the seasoning.
APPLE, ALMOND, LEEK AND CELERY SOUP
(Makes 2 servings)
Scatter 1 tablespoon ground almonds on a baking sheet and toast in a medium oven until golden then set aside to cool (watch them - they burn quickly!)
Warm 1 tablespoon light olive oil in a soup pot and very gently saute 1 small onion (peeled and finely chopped), 2 leeks (cleaned, trimmed and finely sliced) and 2 sticks celery (peeled and finely sliced) until soft (don't let them brown).
Add ½ tart eating apple (peeled, cored and diced), 350mls chicken or vegetable stock and bring to the boil.
Turn down the heat, cover and simmer very gently for 30 minutes or until the vegetables are cooked through then remove from the heat.
Allow to cool slightly before stirring in 2 tablespoons double/heavy cream then blending until you have a very smooth, velvety texture.
Pass through a fine sieve and return to a clean pot over a very gentle heat and stir in the ground almonds. Season to taste and add a little grated nutmeg.
OMEGA 3 SALAD
(Makes 1 serving)
Place a selection of green leaves, some lightly steamed broccoli and cauliflower florets, a handful of cooked kidney beans and a handful of both mixed seeds and walnut halves in a bowl/container and top with natural cottage cheese and an Omega 3-rich egg (boiled, cooled, shelled and quartered).
Add to this a good handful of cooked chickpeas or some cold, cooked mackerel, sardines, rainbow trout, prawns or crabmeat or strips of grass-fed beef, lightly sauteed.
Another good veggie option is tofu, cubed, coated in olive oil and baked in the oven until crisp.
Make a dressing with 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, 1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar, 1 teaspoon grainy or smooth mustard, a drizzle of runny honey, sea salt and freshly ground black pepper and mix well in a jar.
Dress the salad just before eating.
ENERGY BOOSTING SALAD
(Makes 1 serving)
Place a selection of mixed salad leaves, finely sliced spring onions, grated courgette and apple, steamed green beans, avocado (cubed) and a handful of beansprouts in a bowl or container.
Top with cold, cooked chicken, turkey, duck or venison or sliced, grilled tofu or halloumi plus a good handful of toasted flaked almonds.
Make a dressing with 2 tablespoons olive or avocado oil, 1 tablespoon white wine vinegar, 1 teaspoon sesame oil, 1 teaspoon light soy sauce and a pinch of grated ginger and mix well in a jar.
Dress the salad just before eating.
Why are the foods above important for great skin?Omega 3 fatty acids are responsible for skin repair, moisture content and overall flexibility but because the body cannot produce them, they must be obtained through diet.
Top foods: oily fish, seeds, walnuts, avocado.
Vitamin C is highly effective at reducing free radical damage and promoting collagen production for smoother, plumper skin. Top foods: citrus fruits, tomatoes, cherries and berries.
Selenium is responsible for tissue elasticity and helps to prevent skin cell damage.
Top foods: seafood, nuts, eggs.
Zinc acts by controlling the production of oil in the skin, preventing overly oily or overly dry skin.
Top foods: oats, eggs, nuts, seeds
Astaxanthin is a highly-respected antioxidant often regarded as an internal sunscreen as it accumulates in skin cells offering potent protection against ultraviolet radiation.
Top foods: salmon, prawns, shrimps, seaweed.
Silica is a trace mineral that strengthens the body's connective tissues. Deficiency can result in reduced skin elasticity and can hamper the body's ability to heal wounds.
Top foods: beans, leeks, cucumber, celery.
Orange fruits and vegetables are bursting with beta-carotene which the body converts to vitamin A which is vital for repair and maintenance of the skin and to prevent premature ageing.
Top foods: apricots, carrots, canteloupe melon. Green leafy vegetables are also a rich source.
Vitamin K2 prevents calcification of our skin's elastin, the protein that gives skin the ability to spring back, smoothing out lines and wrinkles.
Top foods: butter, cream and cheese from pasture-fed animals.
Iron is essential for the making of haemoglobin in red blood cells which assists in the transportation of oxygen to skin cells preventing itchy, pale skin.
Top foods: spinach, watercress, eggs
Fiona Kirk is author Diet Secrets Uncovered. www.fionakirk.com

