The 14 bizarre ingredients lurking in your food | Daily Mail Online

The next time you are grocery shopping you may want to pay closer attention to the labels, as there are a whole host of unsavoury ingredients lurking in our food.
From jelly made from boiled animal bones to antifreeze in iced cupcakes, suddenly your favourite treats seem a whole lot less palatable.
However these ingredients are not always obvious from the additives, preservatives and extracts listed on the back of the packaging - couched in scientific terms too difficult to understand.

For instance not many consumers are aware that food colouring carmine, which gives red sweets their colour, is derived from boiled beetles - or that sometimes beer is filtered using isinglass, which comes from the bladder of fish.
More worryingly there could also be items such as rodent or human hair in your US-branded peanut butter and bread.
An infographic by Canadian company Food Packaging Labels has revealed 14 of the secret ingredients lurking in your food - all of which apply to the UK, apart from rodent hair in peanut butter.
Vegan campaigner Karin Ridgers, founder of VeggieVision TV, insists that consumers should do their homework before buying particular products
Ms Ridgers told FEMAIL: 'Read the list of ingredients, and if you are not sure what the ingredient actually is, just research it. You will then know forever.
'I never eat anything unless I can read the ingredients.'

Bread contains human hair
According to the infographic, bread contains L-cysteine, an amino acid used in the baking industry as dough conditioner. L-cysteine is most often derived from human hair because it is the cheapest source of the acid.
Beaver flavoured ice-cream
Castoreum extract is an ingredient commonly used as ice cream flavouring and comes from the castor sacs of male and female beavers.
Bug-based candy glaze
Shellac is a secret ingredient that makes sweets smooth and stops them melting in your hand. It is derived from the secretions of Laccifer lacca, a bug from the forests of India and Thailand.
Bugs make your food red
A food colouring known as carmine is extracted from female cochineal insect shells boiled in ammonia or sodium carbonate solution. It makes ice cream, yogurt, sweets and fruit drinks red.
Is that fish in your beer?
Isinglass is a gelatine-like substance made from the swim bladder of fish. It is added to unfiltered and unpasteurised beer to help remove any unwanted yeast and solid particles.
Are your children nibbling on coal tar?
Artificially-coloured orange, yellow or greenish food and drinks contain dyes derived from tartrazine. The food additive comes from coal tar and some studies suggest it causes hyperactivity in children.
Burn fat with wood pulp fast
Cellulose is basically wood pulp processed and manufactured for food supply. It prevents food from clumping and breaking, and allows low fat products to keep their structure.
Popcorn can be dangerous
According to some studies, butter-flavoured microwave popcorn may be dangerous because it contains a chemical called diacetyl, known to damage lungs when inhaled.
Arsenic in food and drinks
Traces of arsenic can not only be found in food but also in beer and wine.
During the filtering process of beverages, producers user diatomaceous earth which is a natural product that contains iron and metals, including arsenic.
How many rodent hairs did you eat today?
Some amount of rodent hairs can be found in various food products as a consequence of mass production and big warehouses.
According to the graphic, the FDA (US Food and Drug Administration) allows an average of one rodent hair in 100g of peanut butter.
Luckily for us the same does not apply for foreign bodies in food in the UK.
It takes a bull to make an energy drink
Energy drinks contain taurine, an organic ingredient that regulates heartbeat. It was originally isolated from bull bile in 1827 and named taurine, after the Latin Taurus which means bull.
No sweet jelly without skin and bones
Jelly desserts such as gummy sweets are actually made from gelatine, which is produced by partial hydrolysis of collagen extracted from animal skin, bones and connective tissues.
A pinch of sand for fresh and yummy food
Silicon dioxide, a type of chemical found in sand, is used as an anti-caking agent in powdered food products and seasonings. It keeps food fresh and appetising.
Antifreeze; the icing on your cake
Propylene glycol is an organic compound found in antifreeze, but it is a common ingredient in food as well. It is used to thicken food, stabilise icing on cakes and keep salads fresh.
Speaking about 'foreign bodies' found in food - such as rodent hair - a spokesperson from the Food Standards Agency told FEMAIL: 'The US FDA tolerance levels for foreign bodies in food produce do not apply to the UK or other EU member States. European Union (EU) Food Law and US food law are set out differently.
'In EU Food Law there are no allowable limits of foreign bodies in food and there is no published list of "tolerance" levels of foreign bodies/matter in food. The expectation of food is that it is not contaminated.'
But while you can rest easy that rat hair has not made its way into British peanut butter, the contents of other products may still turn your stomach.
