The women driven mad with rage by HUNGER: Hormones affecting appetites and moods can lead to hunger-induced anger | Daily Mail Online

Jo Hampson had picked up ingredients for a chicken and vegetable stir-fry on the way to her boyfriend's house after a busy day at the office.
She and Steve had been dating for six months and he'd offered to cook a relaxing, romantic dinner for two.
But when Jo, a company director, realised he hadn't used all the chicken - saving a breast or two for his lunch the next day - the atmosphere in the kitchen quickly reached boiling point.
Scroll down for video
A red mist descended and she bellowed: 'Put all the chicken in the bloody pan!'
Steve recoiled in shock but it was all too familiar to 45-year-old Jo. She's suffered from "hanger" - hunger-induced anger - as long as she can remember.
'When I'm hungry I become completely irrational, losing my temper over the slightest thing,' she says. 'He was taking longer to prepare the food than I'd expected and it had been more than three hours since I'd last eaten - the longest I can go without getting "hangry". The prospect that the meal might not fill me up was too much to bear.'
Afterwards, the tension remained, even after Jo had eaten and returned to her usual friendly, easy-going self.
'He shot me wary glances, like I was crazy, and we only had one more date after that,' she recalls. 'I tried to explain I suffer from hanger, but I don't think he saw me in quite the same light again.'
According to dietitians, while some of us feel lethargic or cannot concentrate without food, a significant number react with rage. When blood sugar plummets, the brain is starved of fuel - glucose is its main source - and the body reacts by producing stress hormone adrenaline. Years ago, this would have spurred us to hunt, but now it just leads to feelings of panic and fury.
Alison Clark, of the British Dietetic Association, says women are more likely to suffer from hanger, as their appetites and moods are affected more by hormones than men's. 'It's the body's way of sending us signals that it's low on fuel and that we need to stock up,' says Alison.
Jo says hanger has had a negative effect on many of her relationships - she's been single since splitting with Steve last year. It has also caused problems at the electrical company she runs.
'I've got so shouty and bad-tempered at work, that I've actually told members of staff they're sacked,' admits Jo, from the Wirral, Merseyside. 'One of them will then make me a sandwich, knowing that once I've eaten all will be right with the world. Afterwards I'll apologise.'
When she's losing her temper, she feels her anger is entirely justified. It's only later, when she's eaten, that she realises it's not.
Consequently, Jo carries barley sugar sweets in her handbag to provide a quick sugar fix in emergencies, and even makes sure she eats something before going out for a meal.
'Otherwise I'm so irritable and tense I find it impossible to make polite conversation,' she says. 'Meanwhile, my companions are happily sitting chatting and sipping aperitifs.'
Despite eating about 3,000 calories a day - way above the recommended 2,000 for women - Jo's been a size 12 for as long as she can remember. She believes a fast metabolism contributes to her hanger as her body burns fuel far more quickly than those of other people.
According to the BDA, the way we respond to low food reserves could well be influenced by our genes, or perhaps by observing our parents' reactions to hunger.
Their experts recommend eating regularly and introducing slow-release carbohydrates - such as sweet potatoes, bulgur wheat, granary bread and basmati rice - into your diet.
Yet it was basmati that caused one of Fiona Davies's worst hanger outbursts. The 40-year-old, who runs a financial education business, admits to terrible outbursts of rage if she doesn't eat promptly every four hours.
On this occasion, she was spending a weekend away with her husband Martin and three other couples when she was put in charge of cooking the rice for supper.
'I boiled water for the rice in the kettle and one of the girls said, "You don't do it like that, you let the water boil in the pan,"' says Fiona. 'Another friend nodded in agreement, and I just lost it.
'I was so hungry and fuming mad - I wanted to get it cooked as soon as possible so we could eat - that I yelled, "Fine, well you boil the stupid rice then!", shoved the pan into her hand and ran upstairs to my room, locking the door behind me.
'Despite much coaxing, I refused to come out and sat, livid, on my bed for two whole hours, until I couldn't resist the smell of food any longer. If I hadn't been so desperate to eat, ridiculous though it sounds when I'm not feeling irrational through hunger, I'd probably have spent the entire weekend sulking in my room.
'I apologised for being so silly once I'd eaten - I always do.'
Fiona, from Bradford on Avon, Wiltshire, has managed to contain her anger at work, following an incident when she was working in a shop aged 16. 'It was nearly lunchtime and I was in the middle of tidying shelves when a senior colleague asked me to do something else,' says Fiona. 'I snapped: "Can't you see I'm busy!" - she was very shocked.
'Once back from my lunch break I was mortified by what I'd said. I thought she might tell the boss and I would be sacked - thankfully she didn't - but a fear of having hanger outbursts at work has remained ever since.'
Now Fiona manages to contain her emotions until she can dash out to her car to let it out with a 'good old shout or scream' before driving to a garage to wolf down crisps or chocolate.
Her husband Martin, a 44-year-old art editor, doesn't get such special treatment, however.
'He says I develop a tell-tale glazed look around my eyes and he knows it won't be long before I get furious about something innocuous,' says Fiona, a svelte size 10. 'He will order me to sit down and do nothing else until I have eaten.
'The fact he knows me so well can be enough to provoke an outburst of hanger - at the time I believe I'm completely in control of my emotions and entirely justified in feeling annoyed.
'After ten years of marriage, he knows the cause and that, once I have food inside me, I'll be back to my reasonable self.'
One in five people say they have ended a relationship or friendship due to the way they behaved when angry
While Fiona may sometimes reach for junk food to immediately satisfy her hanger, British Nutrition Foundation experts warn that's the last thing she needs to stabilise her blood sugar and therefore her mood.
The snacks will give her a quick glucose hit, but her blood sugar will then drop rapidly and she'll be back to feeling hangry in no time.
Much better for stabilising mood are foods high in protein, fibre and essential nutrients, such as fruit, nuts, dairy products, eggs and meat.
So why do some women suffer hangry outbursts?
Nutritionist Bridget Benelam, of the British Nutrition Foundation, says the part of the brain governing appetite sits very close to the area that deals with emotion, which means a crossover is inevitable. This leads to both comfort eating and hanger in some.
'Women may suffer more than men because our energy intake fluctuates in response to the menstrual cycle,' says Bridget. 'This means we tend to crave and eat more at certain times in the month so feeling deprived may then have a greater impact on our mood.'
Melanie Cossins, of Wakefield, West Yorkshire, agrees. She says her hanger is far worse in the two weeks before her period.
And the 41-year-old music teacher feels guilty that the person who most incurs her wrath is her three-year-old son, Zane.
'He can be so demanding that, some days, I forget to eat lunch and by mid-afternoon I'm going out of my mind and literally shaking to the point of dropping things with hunger,' says Melanie.
'He'll be asking me to look at a drawing or get something for him and I'll snap: "Wait a minute! Mummy has to eat!"
'Once I've eaten something like a mini-pizza or egg on toast, I'll pull him onto my lap and say, "Sorry, Mummy was just very hungry".
'I think Zane probably understands because when he gets hungry he, too, becomes very bad-tempered.'
Despite often relying on sausage rolls and other stodgy foods to fill her up fast, Melanie has managed to maintain a size 12 to 14 figure by cooking healthy family meals.
But her husband Michael, a 40-year-old police civilian worker, bears the brunt of her hanger.
'He'll ask what seem like stupid questions at the time and I'll say, "Oh, please shut up - why do you want to know that?' says Melanie.
'It's only later I realise I was being irrational.
'Fortunately, he's pretty easy-going and knows that, once I've had a sandwich, I'll answer him in a civil manner.'
Jo Hampson can only hope to find someone as forgiving.
