http://www.webmd.com/hepatitis/features/hep-c-fatigue?src=RSS_PUBLIC
Tips to Deal With Hepatitis C Fatigue


When you have hepatitis C, being tired -- really tired -- can be a fact of life. But there are ways you can boost your energy.
Here, three people who have experience with fatigue from the disease share their tips.

Jennifer Slepin is a registered nurse from Oakland, CA. She thinks she got hep C from an accidental needle stick while she was working. She learned she had it in 1993 after she gave blood.
“When you're that tired, you can’t ignore it,” Slepin says. “You have to take care of yourself.” She says she gives the same advice to the people she works with who have multiple sclerosis.
Some of the ways she fights fatigue include:
Diet. “I eat really healthy, as little processed food as I can get by with. And I drink a lot of water.”
Exercise. “When I’m really focusing on my wellness, I take a walk every day,” she says. “I try to manage my weight, which is ever the struggle, but is super important.”
Stay away from the bad stuff. “Healthy habits. Very basic, healthy habits. And total avoidance of alcohol.”
Ronni Marks was diagnosed in 1997. She now runs The Hepatitis C Mentor and Support Group, Inc. in New York City. It’s an organization that works to improve the quality of life for people with the condition.
She offers these tips.
Change your lifestyle. “Be sure you’re vaccinated. Make sure you eat a healthy, balanced diet,” she says. “Get rid of anything that could be bad for your liver,” including alcohol.
Do things that make you happy. It’ll help you manage your stress. “If you like walking in the park, if you like bubble baths, whatever. Be good to yourself.”
Educate yourself. See a doctor you’re comfortable with -- one who knows a lot about hep C. The American Liver Foundation has a site dedicated to the disease. You can also call a Hep C help line at 1-800-GO-LIVER (1-800-465-4837).
Carleen McGuffeysays she’s so bone-tired at times that she can’t do anything but sleep.