http://teens.webmd.com/news/20150730/too-few-us-teens-getting-hpv-vaccine-cdc?src=RSS_PUBLIC
Too Few U.S. Teens Getting HPV Vaccine: CDC – WebMD


By Dennis Thompson
HealthDay Reporter

THURSDAY, July 30, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Most boys and a large portion of girls in the United States have not received even a single dose of the cancer-preventing human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, even though some slow progress has been made, federal researchers report.
Four out of 10 girls and six out of 10 boys, aged 13 to 17, have not started the recommended HPV vaccine series, leaving them vulnerable to developing a wide array of cancers, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Every year, about 27,000 women and men in the United States are diagnosed with a cancer caused by HPV infection, the CDC said.
HPV vaccination could prevent the majority of these cancers from ever developing, said Dr. Anne Schuchat, assistant surgeon general and director of CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.
Nearly all cervical and anal cancers are caused by HPV, the CDC said. The virus, which is sexually transmitted, also causes about 70 percent of throat cancers, 75 percent of vaginal cancers and 63 percent of cancers of the penis, according to the CDC.
"HPV vaccine prevents cancer," Schuchat said. "I know many parents are starting to think about their back-to-school lists, and it's a great time to make sure your preteens have gotten all their recommended vaccines."
Data for the latest report came from the CDC's 2014 National Immunization Survey-Teen. The survey included almost 21,000 teens aged 13 to 17 in 2014.
The latest estimates show that 60 percent of adolescent girls and 42 percent of adolescent boys had received one or more doses of HPV vaccine by 2014, the survey noted. This was an increase of 3 percent for girls and 8 percent for boys from 2013.
But HPV vaccinations still lag far behind two other vaccines also recommended for kids 11 and 12: the meningitis and Tdap vaccinations.
About 87 percent of teenagers have received at least one dose of the Tdap vaccine, which protects against tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (whooping cough), and 79 percent have received the meningitis vaccine, the CDC reported.