
A leading cancer surgeon claims he has been forced out of his job at a renowned hospital for daring to criticise the NHS.
Joseph Meirion Thomas wrote a series of articles raising concerns about GPs, the scale of health tourism and his own treatment by senior management.
He has now been made to quit the Royal Marsden Hospital in London after being told he brought the institution into ‘disrepute’.
Mr Thomas, 69, suspects his exit was triggered by one particular article which warned that GPs do not even provide a ‘remotely personal’ service, work out of hours or see the same patient more than once.
The piece, published in the Daily Mail in November, triggered a backlash with doctors condemning him on Twitter as ‘ignorant, unprofessional and misinformed’.
Mr Thomas claims the hospital chief executive was told that GPs would stop referring their patients unless action was taken against him. The surgeon says he was asked to sign a document pledging not to write any more articles without permission and was subsequently made to leave at the end of March.
Efforts to negotiate a contract enabling him to stay on part-time to finish a research project were rejected.
Although he tried to launch a claim for bullying and harassment against bosses, Mr Thomas has just learned it has been thrown out.
Hospital bosses deny trying to ‘silence’ the surgeon and say his articles were ‘personal views’ which were not ‘evidence-based’.
It comes months after the Government unveiled sweeping measures to protect whistleblowers and encourage staff to speak freely.
These included appointing a national whistleblowing tzar and installing dedicated guardians at every hospital to whom employees could go to with their concerns. Mr Thomas, whose cancer research has earned him an international reputation, has also been told he can no longer use the title Professor because his honorary professorship from Imperial College London expired in 2012.
He said: ‘For speaking frankly about the NHS, I was first silenced and then pushed out. My offence was considered unforgivable and deserving of a ‘clean break’.
Writing in the Spectator magazine, he accuses bosses of ‘caving in’ to pressure from GPs – whose responses he called ‘arrogant, vicious and bilious’.
‘If the NHS can treat a senior cancer surgeon this way, what chance does a nurse or a junior doctor with grave concerns about the health service have?’ he writes.
Mr Thomas also claims that a period of forced absence meant he missed vital operations, including two which involved patients with very ‘complex cancers’. ‘Was this action in the best interests of my patients? Hardly,’ he adds.
Mr Thomas says he also wanted to remain involved in a key study involving 90 patients with deadly skin cancer, some of whom now ‘feel abandoned’.
The Mail has repeatedly highlighted cases of whistleblowers being sacked and on occasions, blacklisted by the NHS for raising concerns about safety.
They include Gary Walker, the former chief executive of United Lincolnshire Hospitals who was dismissed in 2010 after warning that targets were being prioritised over patient safety.
Mr Walker said: ‘It’s disgusting that another whistleblower has bitten the dust for raising safety concerns. He said ‘nothing has changed’ despite a major review into whistleblowing last year and promises by ministers to tackle ‘widespread failures’/
Mr Thomas last night said the Royal Marsden’s response was ‘disingenuous’. He said there was no evidence his warnings harmed its reputation and claimed he was forced to sign a gagging order.
The NHS trust that runs the Royal Marsden insisted the surgeon’s accusations were a ‘misrepresentation of the facts’.
He’s got it all wrong, say hospital chiefs
Bosses who run the world famous cancer hospital where Joseph Meirion Thomas worked last night issued a swift rebuttal to the claims in his article.
A statement by The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust said: ‘Mr Thomas’ article is a misrepresentation of the facts.
‘He fails to disclose that the senior independent director of the Royal Marsden undertook a detailed investigation into his complaints against the Trust and none of these was upheld.
‘He fails to disclose that one of his principal reasons for requesting to remain on staff after his retirement at the age of 69 was to undertake private practice.
‘He fails to disclose that a succession plan had been put in place with his involvement and support well in advance of his retirement date of March 2015 to ensure a smooth transition for patients.
‘Mr Thomas cannot provide evidence that he has been silenced by the Trust given that no disciplinary process was ever undertaken and he has continued to speak to the media throughout his employment.
‘He was asked to share articles in advance to allow the Trust to prepare for any response. The only additional action taken by the Trust was to ask him to take seven days paid leave after the scale of the response to his articles by GPs given the impact on him and the Trust, and he returned to work as normal at the end of that period.
‘The clinical team covered all his work without inconvenience to patients during this period.’ Bosses also dismiss claims by the surgeon that he was ‘forbidden’ from writing to patients to explain his departure.
They add: ‘Mr Thomas compares his personal complaints ... to whistleblowing on matters of patient safety which was the subject of the report by Robert Francis QC on “Freedom to speak up”. This is a misrepresentation of the facts. His articles and contributions to the media are his personal views on the state of the NHS. They are not specific matters of patient safety and neither are they properly evidence-based.
‘As Mr Thomas is aware, the position of The Royal Marsden is that he is entitled to express his personal views.
‘Equally, The Royal Marsden is entitled to manage the risk and impact on the organisation and our patients.’