Top summer hangover cures revealed | Daily Mail Online

Feeling the effects of a night out? Step away from the pizza, steer clear of white toast and whatever you do, do not pop an aspirin as it will irritate your already sensitive stomach.
We have all been there, nursing a sore head after a night out, drinking copious amounts of water as we battle dry mouth, waves of nausea and feelings of lightheadedness.
And while there have been many old wives' tales about how to combat a hangover, experts say the best solution is to prepare your body by eating the right foods before a night out.
They advise stocking up on protein before drinking, taking vitamin B supplements to replace the ones you have lost, and tucking into a slice of Marmite on toast when you come home from a night out.
Cassandra Barns, Nutritionist at NutriCentre, told FEMAIL: 'Hangover symptoms show that the body is suffering from dehydration, mineral loss and low blood sugar, as well as the presence of toxic metabolites of alcohol.
'We can use food to prevent or reduce hangover symptoms, because certain nutrients are used for the body's detoxification processes.
'Food can counteract dehydration and nutrient loss caused by drinking, as well as support balanced energy levels.
Before a big night out, the best foods and drinks to focus on are those which promote liver function.
'Ensure you have protein (eggs, meat, fish, baked beans and lentils) because some amino acids facilitate detoxification, particularly of acetaldehyde which is thought to be a cause of those unpleasant hangover symptoms,' Cassandra explained.
And as protein takes a long time to digest, it helps to line the stomach.
'Before heading out, make sure you eat a meal containing lots of protein. Good sources are fish, meat, nuts, seeds, eggs, beans, lentils and tofu,' she continued.
Shani Shanker nutritionist at Super Radiance agrees.
'Food will slow down the rate at which you absorb any alcohol and protect your gut lining from irritation,' she said.
'Before the party starts aim to eat a meal that combines protein and slow-releasing carbohydrates (for example, grilled fish, brown rice and green vegetables, or meat with new potatoes).
'The old wives tale about drinking milk to line your stomach is best ignored; it's a common allergen and encourages mucus production,' she continued.
Instead you need to make sure you pack your pre-night out meal with antioxidant-rich fruits, fresh vegetables and leafy greens such as broccoli and spinach.
Charles Charlie Banfield from Fitness First says exercise also plays a part when tackling a hangover.
He said: 'As alcohol is a diuretic your kidneys produce too much urine, which leads to dehydration. If your body is dehydrated you won't be able to clear out the lactic acid you produce when you exercise.
'This is because your liver will be working harder to remove the toxic by-products of alcohol instead of converting glucose for the energy you need to exercise.
'Therefore rehydration after a heavy drinking session is vital not only to help remove toxins but also to maintain the blood flow through your body, which is essential for circulating oxygen and nutrients to your muscles when exercising.'
'Both yoga and rowing can be especially beneficial when trying to overcome a hangover.
'Yoga is known to get rid of toxins, improve circulation and aid the digestion process and both Yoga and rowing increase blood flow – rebuilding energy levels worn down by heavy drinking and poor sleep, so that every part of the body feels oxygenated and rejuvenated.'
'These vegetables offer protection from free radicals, which are considered another cause of hangovers,' Cassandra explained.
'Include healthy fats such as an olive oil dressing to slow absorption of alcohol, thereby slowing the work for your liver.'
And as a preventative measure, she advises taking milk thistle tincture before drinking, and popping Vitamin B supplements.
Cassandra explained: 'Milk thistle helps the liver deal with the toxins that will be introduced to the body.
'Alcohol destroys your body's vital energy boosting and nervous system protecting B vitamins.
'Ensure you keep your B levels topped up the day before a big drinking session with a good B complex.'
She also advises eating something when you come home from your night out.
'Before bed, have a snack containing protein to help balance blood sugar levels.
'Try Marmite, hummus or peanut butter on wholegrain toast,' she continued.
The next morning you will want to start your day with a power-packed smoothie.
'The morning after, have a smoothie made of banana, kiwi, flaxseed, cinnamon, spirulina and Omega 3,' she said.
'This will ensure a good supply of vitamins and help balance blood sugar levels.'
If you need something more substantial, opt for a healthy variation of a full English.
'Ideally choose eggs, because they are rich in cysteine, which is needed to break down acetaldehyde,' she said.
'Before, during and after drinking it's best to avoid sugary foods and drinks, because alcohol consumption tends to play havoc with energy and blood sugar control.
Refined sugars will compound this problem so it's better to focus on protein and unrefined carbohydrates which release glucose slowly.
After drinking it's best to avoid caffeine because it could worsen the dehydration. Finally, after drinking the stomach may be irritated so it's best to avoid very spicy or fatty fried foods.
It's not wise to start drinking alcohol the next day because it prolongs the period of time for which your liver is processing alcohol.'
Cassandra Barns, NutriCentre nutritionist
'Try a healthier cooked breakfast of poached eggs, green leafy vegetables, grilled tomatoes and wholegrain bread.
'Keep your energy up by having plenty of slow-release carbohydrates from wholegrains and vegetables,' she advised.
But there are some who swear by some rather unconventional cures, one being the liquid from a pickle jar… but does it actually work?
'My theory is that the vinegar could be stimulating the liver to help detoxify and eliminate the alcohol; and/or the salt in the liquid can help with rehydration,' Cassandra explained.
Nutrient-rich bone broth could also go some way to easing your hangover.
'If you make your own broth or stock at home using animal bones, vegetables and a pinch or two of sea salt, you could do worse than drinking a cup or two of this the morning after,' she said.
'Bone broth contains lots of minerals that are naturally released from the bones during cooking – and these, together with the salt, could help to rehydrate you much better than water alone. The amino acids it contains such as glycine can help to soothe the gut lining too.
But whatever you do, try not to pop a pill.
Shani Shanker explained:'Painkillers will only add to the load on your already struggling liver,
'If you need them, drink lots of water and opt for paracetamol over aspirin or other non-steroid anti-inflammatory painkillers, as these can further irritate an already fragile stomach.

And there are some who swear by the restorative powers of beetroot.
'Beta cyanin, the pigment that gives beetroot its colour, is an antioxidant so the humble beetroot could be the key to beating your hangover,' said a spokesperson from Love Beetroot.
'Beta cyanin speeds up detoxification in your liver, which enables your body to turn the alcohol into a less harmful substance that can be excreted quicker than normal.'
And while we've all had a Bloody Mary to assuage the pounding in our head, does it really help?
James Morris from Amuse Bouche Champagne Bar and The Tommy Tucker pub seems to think so, although he suggests a rather slimy addition.
'A very spicy Bloody Mary with lots of celery, salt and a raw egg in it,' he said.
'The raw egg settles the stomach, the salt and tomato replaces lost minerals, spices wake you up and vodka takes the edge off. I like to add a little sweet sherry to sweeten it too.'


Combat nausea
Inflammation of the stomach lining causes nausea.
If the nausea is mild, it's worth trying to avoid vomiting as it causes irritation to your oesophagus.
Ginger can be surprisingly effective at combating nausea.
Try mashing up fresh ginger root and make a fresh lemon and ginger tea with some slices of lemon. Sip slowly.
Rehydration
As well as sipping water, food can help boost hydration. Watermelon, strawberries, grapefruit, cucumber and tomatoes are just some examples of hydrating foods with a significant water content.
Enjoy a few slices of juicy watermelon or a punnet of strawberries as you vegetate in front of the TV.

Eat Wisely

Avoid eating typical hangover foods that are high in starchy, sugary, high glycaemic carbs (that means no cereal, white toast and pizza)
Eating refined carbohydrates places extra stress on the liver as it tries to regulate glucose levels.
Eggs are one of the best breakfast options as they are rich in protein - team them up with a slice of rye toast and some mashed avocado or cherry tomatoes. This breakfast should help satisfy carbohydrate cravings whilst optimising energy levels.
Overcoming your headache
A banging head is caused by dehydration and a build up of toxic substances. Water intake is important here but sip, don't gulp. Avoid swamping your gut full of liquid and causing yourself to vomit. You can use good quality, natural rehydration sachets or try coconut water. It naturally contains electrolytes, the nutrient needed for optimal hydration.
Tips from Kim Pearson, nutritionist at OMNIYA health and beauty MediClinic
Smoky Mexican (A twist on a Bloody Mary)
Ingredients: 50ml Herradura Reposado; 125ml tomato juice; 12.5ml Worcester sauce; four to six dashes Tabasco chipotle; pinch of sea salt; twist of black pepper; half a squeezed lemon; one bar spoon of jalapeno brine
Method: Add all ingredients to shaker with cubed ice and roll to chill the drink (it is important not to shake so as to avoid dilution). Serve in Catalina glass over cubed ice and garnished with jalapeno and celery.
Prairie Oyster
Ingredients: One egg yolk; dash olive oil; one teaspoon Worcester Sauce; five dashes Tabasco; salt and pepper
Method: Add all ingredients to rocks glass, then down in one gulp. A chaser of 50ml chilled tomato juice is advised. This is improved infinitely with 25ml of brandy and all traces of your hangover will disappear.
Recipes from Martin Hughes, Assistant General Manager at Rocket Bishopsgate shares his failsafe cures
Michelada Bloody Mary
Ingredients: 25ml of fresh lime juice; 50 ml tomato juice, pepper; salt; Worcestershire sauce and spicy Valentina sauce to taste; 25 ml of Arette Blanco tequila
Method: All ingredients shaken and poured into a long glass with ice and topped up with Modelo beer. Salt rim on the glass recommended.
Recipe from El Patron Restaurant

Basil & Celery Mary
Ingredients: Four squeezes of fresh lemon, ground black pepper, fresh basil, micro herb celery (like regular celery but with a more intense and slightly sweeter flavour), Maldon sea salt; vodka
Method: All shaken with a generous dose of vodka and topped up with freshly juiced tomatoes – again spiced depending on how bad the hangover is.
Recipe from Arron Smallman, The Botanist.



