Walking in the countryside reduces stress and anxiety and 'good for the brain' | Daily Mail Online

They say a dose of fresh air is good for the lungs and the skin.
But it may also be good for the brain, scientists claim.
Taking a walk in a natural place can ease depression, according to new research.
A study found strolling around a green place stops people dwelling on negative repetitive thoughts.
However, walking around an urban setting, such as a city or a town, did not have the same effect.
Previous research has linked such negative thoughts, called rumination, to higher levels of mental illness.
Those who ruminate dwell of negative aspects of themselves, replaying embarrassing or disappointing moments in their mind.
It is known from former studies that people who live in cities are more prone to rumination, and therefore more likely to become depressed, although it is not yet known why.
The new study shows taking a walk in a green place could help ease the rumination that is linked to living in an urban place, the researchers concluded.
As part of the research 19 people took a 90-minute walk in a natural setting and a further 19 people took the same length walk in an urban environment.
They were asked to fill out questionnaires on their mental state before and after the walks, and researchers also scanned their brains.
Those who walked around the green place had lower levels of rumination, the study found.
The scans showed that the area of the brain linked to an increased risk of mental illness was less active in those who walked around the natural setting.
'It was pretty striking that a 90-minute walk had this much of an impact,' study author Gregory Bratman, a doctoral student in the department of biology at Stanford University told LiveScience.
Writing in the report, he said: 'Nature experience may improve mental well-being and suggests that accessible natural areas within cities and towns may be a critical resource for mental health in our rapidly urbanizing world.'
The research is of note because more than 50 per cent of people now live in urban areas, a proportion which is expected to increase to 70 per cent by 2050, he added.
The findings were published in the journal PNAS.