We reveal the healthiest lollies to help you cool off in the heat | Daily Mail Online

With temperatures soaring and the mercury expected to reach 35C in parts of the country, people across the country will be hunting for an ice cream to cool off.
No one would expect a Magnum to be healthy, least of all the pink raspberry version, with 276 calories and 6 tsp sugar.
But some ice creams are better for you than others.
Here, dietitian Dr Sarah Schenker gives her verdict on five of the healthier options.
Del Monte 100 per cent juice ice lolly
£2 for three from major supermarkets
EXPERT VERDICT: This really is nothing but fruit juice frozen on a stick, which means it provides vitamins and nutrients and, technically, would count as one of your five-a-day (if you don’t also drink fruit juice).
Each lolly is just 69 calories, with no added sugar or chemicals.
It makes it a relatively healthy treat — but stick to having one at mealtimes to reduce the corrosive impact of the fruit acids on your teeth.
5/5
Claudi & Fin Greek-style yoghurt lollies
£2.50 for four from Ocado, Sainsbury’s and large Waitrose stores
EXPERT VERDICT: These lollies are only 52 calories each, and because they are 45 per cent yoghurt and 19 per cent milk, they are a great source of calcium.
Better still, the lollies are enriched with vitamin D and full of live yoghurt cultures to promote the friendly bacteria in your gut, which may boost your immune system.
Plus, there’s only around one to two teaspoons of sugar in each.
5/5
Mini Milk
£2 for 12 from most supermarkets
EXPERT VERDICT: This is a favourite in our house.
At 30 calories each, you can’t go wrong, and the high milk content (70 per cent) makes them a useful calcium boost - 36 per cent of your recommended daily amount.
5/5
Oppo mint chocolate swirl with spirulina
£5.49 for 500ml, Ocado and large Waitrose stores
EXPERT VERDICT: This ice cream is sweetened with Stevia — a more natural low-calorie sugar alternative than some sweeteners — and it uses coconut oil as a thickening agent, which is better than the chemical bulkers you often find in low-calorie desserts.
However, spirulina (a form of algae that is purported to be packed with vitamins and minerals) has unproven health benefits, and is likely to be in too small a quantity to have any noticeable result.
4/5
Smooze mango fruit ice
Five lollies for £2.55, Ocado, Sainsbury’s and large Waitrose stores
EXPERT VERDICT: Because these are made with coconut milk they are dairy-free — great for people with dairy allergies or lactose intolerance.
A lolly has 67 calories and 2 tsp of sugar.
4/5
Lick fat-free elderflower and strawberries creamy frozen yoghurt
£1.79 for a 125 ml tub, Ocado and large Waitrose stores
EXPERT VERDICT: At 110 calories per tub, this is a good option, providing calcium from the milk and only very little sugar in the strawberry compote.
Because it’s frozen yoghurt, you also get the benefit of probiotics to boost good bacteria in the gut.
4/5