
The diet you're on may promise to help you shift weight fast, but one new solution could mean that you can ditch the meticulous calorie counting and still drop the pounds.
A clothing range is hailing itself as an effortless way to slim down  - and it can even work while you're asleep.
The hi-tech clothing  - which includes vests and insoles -  works on the premise that it can trick your body into thinking its temperature has dropped.
Scroll down for video
The Thin Ice insole and vest  'hacks' your body's metabolism to make it burn more calories, according to its creator.
When the temperature drops, your body compensates to warm you up by shivering. It is this process that is being hijacked to burn extra calories.
Thin Ice clothing line was created by Toronto-based personal trainer and former athlete Adam Paulin.
'Based on estimates derived from our prototypes, competitors and scientific literature we estimate that you'll be able to burn between 500 and 1,000 calories a day, just by wearing our clothing for the recommended duration,' said  Paulin.
The Thin Ice clothing range uses Peltier cooling chips on parts of the skin that contain high concentrations of heat receptors.
The chips are powered by a rechargable battery, and the heat generated by them as they take it away form your body is dissipated through the outside of the clothes, according to Paulin.
By stimulating specific parts of the foot and abdomen rather than the whole foot or chest ensures that there is less discomfort while maintaining a substantial metabolic response, Paulin claims.
This targeting of heat receptors also means that you won't shiver all day with the vest on.
Mr Paulin is currently raising money on the crowdfunding site Indiegogo to bring his creation to customers, and slimmers can reserve their own insole or vest for $99 (£63).
Paulin claims that while the clothing does lower your body temperature, you will not feel it beyond an initial adaptation period of a few seconds.
On the crowdfunding page, the sensation is likened to jumping into a cold swimming pool.
The initial change in temperature makes you feel cold instantly, but after a few seconds you don't notice it.
The pool itself hasn't changed temperature, but your body has adapted to make you feel warmer.
'If you do feel the chill you can always adjust the temperature of your Thin Ice clothing via smartphone to accommodate your comfort level,' said Paulin.
'At Thin Ice, we want to have a long-term weight-management relationship with you. It's not in our best interest to scare you away by making you uncomfortably cold.'
The Thin Ice clothing range uses Peltier cooling chips on parts of the skin that contain high concentrations of heat receptors.
Peltier chips are used to cool technology that requires a compact cooling system, like microprocessors used in various electronics.
The chips are powered by a rechargable battery, and the heat generated by them as they take it away form your body is dissipated through the outside of the clothes, according to Paulin.
Around 50 per cent of your daily calorie intake is used on maintaining your body temperature, Paulin claims, so slightly altering it can lead to a lot of energy expenditure.
By stimulating specific parts of the foot and abdomen rather than the whole foot or chest ensures that there is less discomfort while maintaining a substantial metabolic response, Paulin claims.
This targeting of heat receptors also means that you won't shiver all day with the vest on.
'I've spent a lot of time asking myself how we can hack our bodies into optimal performance using science. There is a certain satisfaction in making your body do your bidding,' said Paulin.
The Thin Ice clothing range will come with an app that allows users to control the temperature, monitor calories burned and also set a timer to activate the garments.
The clothing range is expected to ship in December, and the crowdfunding has already exceeded its target.