Weight-Loss Surgery's Benefits May Fade With Time, Study Suggests – WebMD

By Steven Reinberg
HealthDay Reporter
WEDNESDAY, Aug. 5, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Although weight-loss surgery may produce initial dramatic weight loss and improve type 2 diabetes, a new study suggests that in the long run, many people regain weight and see their diabetes return.
In fact, in the first year after an operation called sleeve gastrectomy, patients lost 77 percent their excess weight. But by the fifth year they regained weight, bringing their weight loss to only 56 percent. Also, 51 percent of patients saw type 2 diabetes disappear in the first year. By the fifth year, only 20 percent were still free of type 2 diabetes, researchers said.
"Weight-loss surgery is not a panacea for weight loss over the long run," said lead researcher Dr. Andrei Keidar, of the Beilinson Hospital in Petah Tikva, Israel.
Keidar said several reasons account for weight gain after surgery. "The main reason is that the stomach dilates, meaning you can eat more. The appetite comes back so patients can eat more and they want to eat more," he said.
Weight-loss surgery is a "behavioral surgery," Keidar said. "If you don't change your behavior, you are going to regain weight."
For the study, Keidar's team collected data on almost 450 operations done between April 2006 and February 2013. By the fifth year after surgery, however, only 39 people had full follow-up data.
The researchers also found that throughout the five years, 46 percent of the patients experienced a drop in blood pressure. Changes in cholesterol, however, were insignificant, they said.
Several weight-loss procedures are available. This study looked specifically at laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, which is becoming a more common procedure, researchers said.
During a sleeve gastrectomy, surgeons remove most of the stomach and create a long, slender pouch, or sleeve, from the remaining portion of the stomach, according to the U.S. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). Reducing the size of the stomach limits the amount of food you can eat.
Removing most of the stomach also causes changes in gut hormones, suppresses appetite, lowers blood sugar and may make you feel fuller longer, according to the NIDDK.