

By Amy Norton
HealthDay Reporter

THURSDAY, Aug. 6, 2015 (HealthDay News) -- Parents should be open to using a range of tactics for managing their preschoolers' behavior problems -- including "time-outs," a set of new studies suggests.
When it comes to disciplining young children, there are two broad camps. Some popular advice books and websites emphasize "positive parenting," where time-outs and other punishments are discouraged.
But if parents were to read a child psychology textbook, they'd find that time-outs are considered an effective tactic, said Robert Larzelere, a professor of human development and family science at Oklahoma State University.
That's because time-outs have shown their value in studies of children diagnosed with behavioral disorders.
Things have been murkier, however, when it comes to "typical kids," Larzelere explained.
But on Thursday, he and other researchers speaking at the American Psychological Association's annual meeting in Toronto offered evidence in support of time-outs -- and a range of other parenting tactics.
Research presented at meetings should be viewed as preliminary until published in a peer-reviewed journal.
The gist of all the studies is that while whining and pouting can be managed with little fuss -- or just ignored -- more serious behavior issues, such as aggression towards other kids and hitting, should have consequences.
That does not mean parents should yell or spank, Larzelere stressed. It means judicious use of a time-out, or taking away a privilege or toy.
For their study, Larzelere and his colleagues conducted a series of interviews with 102 mothers whose children ranged in age from 17 months to almost 3 years at the outset. Overall, the researchers found that different tactics seemed to work for different behavior issues. And immediate solutions often differed from long-term ones.
When youngsters were "defiant" or hitting, moms often got immediate results when they used time-out or took something away from the child. Those moves were not effective, though, when children were simply whining or trying to get their way, the researchers found.
For those milder issues, "reasoning" seemed to do the trick in the short term, the study found. And how do you reason with a toddler? By keeping it simple, according to Larzelere.