What nationality are your BREASTS? Surgeons' preferences vary | Daily Mail Online

Where in the world you choose to have a boob job could determine the shape of your bust, a new study has revealed.
For, plastic surgeons across the world have different preferences when it comes to the ideal size and shape of breasts, as well as the size of a woman's areolas.
In the last 10 years the trend towards cosmetic surgery tourism has been on the rise, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
As a result, experts say, international differences in the ideal appearance of a woman's breasts may be becoming more important.
Dr Neil Tanna, who worked on the study, said: 'In a global environment, patients who seek surgery in another country may not be happy with their result.'
Dr Tanna and his colleagues discovered:
'There is a lot of variation in what is considered the "ideal" breast and this is true for both patients and surgeons,' Dr Tanna told Reuters Health.
The plastic surgeon, from New York, and his colleagues said while researchers have tried to identify objective criteria for attractiveness, there has been little discussion of the factors that influence individual preferences.
The team sent out electronic visual surveys, and received 614 responses from plastic surgeons in 29 countries.

The survey featured an interactive design showing surgeons an image of a model.
They were then asked to adjust the image to display smaller or larger areolas and fuller or less full upper area of the breasts.
The participating surgeons also reported demographic information, including their nationality, age, sex, ethnicity, and whether they had a private or academic practice.
Surgeon age had an effect on their preferences, with older surgeons tending to prefer less upper breast fullness and larger areola size.
Surgeons' ethnicity did not have a significant effect on their preferences, however.
Dr Tanna said: 'The geographic location of the surgeon has therefore more influence on different beauty ideals than his or her ethnicity.'
He said that this is likely due to cultural differences in the different countries surveyed.
Dr Colleen McCarthy, a reconstructive surgeon at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said that based on the study's results, 'we can glean that there is no universally accepted aesthetic norm when talking about breast shape'.
Dr McCarthy, who wasn't involved in the study, said the next step would be to see if a similar tool could be used to evaluate an individual patient's ideal breast appearance.
'As the goal of any cosmetic breast surgery is to satisfy a patient with respect to her expectations for an aesthetic result, any tool that facilitates communication of this would be invaluable,' Dr McCarthy noted.
Dr Tanna agreed that communication between doctor and patient is crucial.
'It is important for plastic surgeons to consider the cultural background and country of origin of their patients,' he advised.
'This will help to establish a common denominator between patients and surgeons, which might ultimately lead to higher patient satisfaction.'
The study was published in the Annals of Plastic Surgery.