http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/food/article-3184770/Now-DIET-Coke-does-body-Infographic-reveals-fizzy-drink-makes-store-fat-rots-teeth-effects-like-cocaine-just-ONE-HOUR.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
What happens one hour after drinking a can of Diet coke revealed | Daily Mail Online

A UK pharmacist has shocked fizzy drink fans by releasing a step-by-step guide to the dramatic way a can of Diet Coke affects the body from 10 minutes after the first sip until an hour later.
Niraj Naik, who runs The Renegade Pharmacist blog, has created an eye-opening infographic that exposes how the sugar-free drink can wreak havoc on everything from your teeth to your waistline.
The blog post comes a week after his last infographic - about the physical impact of swigging a can of Coca-Cola - swept the internet.
Here FEMAIL reveals just what happens to your body when your drink Diet Coke.
We also speak to Ella Allred, technical nutritionist at NutriCentre for a detailed breakdown on how the soda affects your system.
In the first 10 minutes: It tricks your taste buds and attacks your teeth. The phosphoric acid attacks the enamel in your teeth, while the artificial sweeteners like aspartame hit your system. Aspartame may trigger taste receptors and tricks your body into thinking it has just had processed sugar.
Ms Allred says: 'As soon as you taste the sweetness of Diet Coke, your body prepares for the sugar load and causes you pancreases releases insulin. The insulin surge decreases the pancreases sensitivity to insulin, putting you at risk of developing diabetes type 2. The insulin triggers your body to store fat around your middle, and increases your risk of developing heart disease.'

>20 minutes: Can switch on fat storage mode. Like regular Coke this can trigger insulin, which sends your body into fat storage mode. Data from a number of studies, including Nurses' Health Study and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study also reported greater risk of type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease.
Ms Allred says: 'Blood insulin saturation is complete. But the problem is, there is no sugar in Diet Coke. But now you have a lot of insulin in your blood stream, pulling all of your blood available blood sugar into your cells leaving you with a massive sugar low. You then need sugar in your blood to maintain equilibrium. The sweet cravings kick in and may find you are reaching for another Diet Coke, which starts the cycle again.'


>40 minutes: Can cause addiction. The combination of caffeine and aspartame creates a short addictive high similar in the way cocaine works. Excitotoxins are released which may exhaust your brains by overstimulating its neuroreceptors, especially if consumed on your regular basis.
Ms Allred says:'Caffeine saturation of your blood is complete, switching off tiredness receptors. It's creating pseudo alertness, and pushing our bodies beyond their designed capabilities. The aspartame has reached your brain, where it is a neuro toxin, which in some people may trigger migraines and other neurological problems. Aspartame and caffeine both trigger your brains reward centres, making this combination highly addictive.
>60 minutes and beyond: Can deplete nutrients, make you hungry and thirsty for me
Unlike the small amount of satisfaction you get from regular Coke, your body may still crave sweets. This makes you likely to reach for another soda, or worse, some other junk food you consider to be safe and the cycle continues.
A can of Diet Coke provides no nourishment and would replace a more nutritious drink you could have drunk while potentially depleting your body of essential minerals.
It will never quench your thirst as it dehydrates rather than hydrates your body. A lack of vital water can lead to brain fog, poor concentration, fatigue and feeling irritable.
Ms Allred says: The dehydrating effect of the Coke is already having an impact on your cells hydration levels. Dehydration has the effect of causing tiredness and drowsiness, which will likely leave you reaching for another caffeine hit. And so the vicious cycle starts again. Each time worsening its effect, causing you to gain weight and pushing your body beyond its design.

Mr Naik told FEMAIL: 'All diet beverages with similar ingredients to Diet Coke will have the same or similar effects.'
According to Mr Naik, drinks which contain aspartame are more harmful to the body than ones which contain just sugar.
He said: 'They are found in to be actually worse.
'A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition discovered  that diet fizzy drinks increased the risk of diabetes more than regular fizzy drinks sweetened with sugar.'
He explained:  'Women who drank one 12oz diet fizzy drink had a 33 per cent increased risk of type 2 diabetes and women who drank one 20oz soda had a 66 per cent increase in risk.
'Women who drank diet fizzy drinks drank twice as much as those who drank regular fizzy drinks sweetened with sugar, because artificial sweeteners can be more addictive, and are up to a 1,000 times sweeter than regular sugar.
'The average diet fizzy drink consumer drinks  three diet drinks a day.
;In this study they scientifically controlled for body weight and they found that the artificial sweeteners still increased diabetes independent of body weight.
'From my experience as a community pharmacist helping people to get off medications for metabolic diseases such as heart disease, diabetes and obesity, I found if people drink diet sodas they still get the same problems as people who drink normal soda.'
Marisa Peer a behavioural psychologist and a world renowned expert in eating disorders said: 'Artificial sweeteners are associated with a drop in the appetite-regulating hormone leptin.
'Leptin is the hormone that inhibits hunger so diet drinks like Diet Coke actually make you hungry and less satisfied with normal amounts of food, and finally when you eat or drink a lot of chemicals that your body simply cannot break down, your body makes more and more internal fat to wrap the chemicals in keeping those harmful chemicals away from your vital organs.
'As Diet Coke has no calories and no recognised ingredients we know it is a cocktail of chemicals that encourage your body to gain and store weight especially on your legs and bottom away from your organs. Diet drinks are not good for your body your health or even as it turns out, for dieting.'
When contacted for comment a spokesperson for Coca-Cola told FEMAIL: 'Diet Coke has been enjoyed by millions of people around the world for more than 30 years. As with all the drinks we sell, its ingredients are perfectly safe and can be enjoyed as part of a balanced lifestyle.'



Original: 200ml glass of orange juice (18.4g sugar, 85 calories)
Swap: Two clementines (10.4g sugar, 50 calories)
Sugar saving: Two teaspoons.
Original: 75g slice of Waitrose lemon tart (22.3g sugar, 356 calories)
Swap: Pancakes with lemon juice and sprinkled granular sweetener to taste (8.4g sugar, 222 calories)
Sugar saving: Three and a half teaspoons.
Original: Mcvities milk chocolate digestive (4.9g sugar, 83 calories)
Swap: Kallo Organic dark chocolate rice cake thin (2.6g sugar, 55 calories)
Sugar saving: Half a teaspoon.
Original: Slice of jam and buttercream victoria sandwich (17.8g sugar, 216 calories)
Swap: Cream horn (8.7g sugar, 197 calories)
Sugar saving: Two teaspoons
Original: 60g serving Blue Dragon oyster and spring onion sauce (10.8g sugar, 61 calories)
Swap: Dash (10ml) of light soy sauce (1.2g sugar, 5 calories)
Sugar saving: Two teaspoons
Original: Snickers bar (21.7g sugar, 245 calories)
Swap: Slice of toast spread with a 15g spoon Nutella (9.9g sugar, 174 calories)
Sugar saving: Three teaspoons
Original: 295g serving Campbell's condensed cream of tomato soup (12.8g sugar, 140 calories)
Swap: 300g New Covent Garden wild mushroom soup (2.7g sugar, 81 calories)
Sugar saving: 1 and a half teaspoons
Original: 330ml Old Jamaican Ginger beer (52.8g sugar, 211 calories)
Swap: 330ml low calorie ginger ale (0.5g sugar, 5 calories)
Sugar saving: 12 ½ teaspoons
Original: Cup of tea with milk and sugar (9.1g sugar, 44 calories)
Swap: Cup of tea with a two sweeterners such as Canderel tablets (1.2g sugar, 12 calories)
Sugar saving: Two teaspoons.
Original: Cheddar and pickle sandwich (7.5g sugar, 422 calories)
Swap: Prawn sandwich (2.4g sugar, 392 calories)
Sugar saving: One teaspoon
Original: 125g pot of low fat raspberry yogurt (16.5g sugar 126 calories)
Swap: 125g fat free Greek yogurt with 80g raspberries and Stevia sweetener to taste (7.8g sugar 92 calories)
Sugar saving: Two teaspoons
Original: Medium (400ml) McDonalds banana milk shake (49g sugar, 386 calories)
Swap: 400ml Yazoo banana flavour milk drink (38.4g sugar, 240 calories.)
Sugar saving: Two and a half teaspoons
Original: 50ml Irish cream (9.8g sugar, 166 calories)
Swap: 250ml can slimline gin and tonic (trace sugar, 94 calories)
Sugar saving: Two and a half ½ teaspoons
Original: 30g Blue Diamond honey roast almonds (5.8g sugar, 180 calories)
Swap: 30g KP salted peanuts (1.6g sugar, 177 calories)
Sugar saving: One teaspoon.
Original: 40g Cheerios (8.3g sugar, 151 calories)
Swap: 40g Shreddies (6g sugar 148 calories) Without milk.
Sugar saving: Half teaspoon (without milk)
Original: Tall Starbucks Chai latte (31.3g sugar, 179 calories)
Swap: Tall Starbucks Caffe latte (12.8g sugar, 148 calories)
Sugar saving: Four and a half teaspoons
Original: Two 50ml scoops Ben and Jerry's Cookie Dough (21g sugar, 230 calories)
Swap:Two 50ml scoops Haagen Daz Vanilla (12.3g sugar, 216 calories).
Sugar saving: 2 teaspoons
Original: 250ml glass of Volvic Touch of Fruit Strawberry (24g sugar, 100 calories)
Swap: Oasis Summer Fruits (20g sugar, 86 calories).
Sugar saving: One teaspoon
Original: Sainsbury's ginger snap (3.4g sugar 46 calories)
Swap: Nairn's Stem ginger oat biscuit (1.7g sugar, 44 calories).
Sugar saving: Half teaspoon
Original: Two tablespoons Tesco Finest Balsamic dressing (5.4g sugar, 114 calories)
Swap: Two tablespoon Tesco Finest French dressing (2g sugar, 110 calories).
Sugar saving: Quarter teaspoon.




