http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3187243/Why-easier-work-music-Tunes-help-dull-pain-exercise-producing-chemicals-similar-morphine.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Why it IS easier to work out to music - it dulls the pain | Daily Mail Online

Gym goers have known for years that working out is easier to music.
Now scientists think they know the reason why – it seems listening to our favourite tunes helps reduce pain.
Listening to music makes our brain release natural painkilling chemicals called opioids – the same family of drugs as heroin and morphine.
It seems that these chemicals are why the music has such a powerful effect on our well-being and makes exercising less agonising.
Research by Daniel Levitin at McGill University in Canada found that when opioid signals in the brain were blocked – using a drug called Naltrexone which is also used to treat drug addicts - people listening to music found the amount of pleasure they got from it decreased.
The other brain chemical music helps produce in us is dopamine. This is created when we are anticipating listening to our favourite sounds.
Robin Dunbar, of Oxford University, has provided further evidence of the role of opioids when we listen to music.
Speaking at the Society for Music Perception’s conference in Nashville this week, he said his research had found that actively engaging with music – such as singing or dancing or drumming – increased a person’s pain threshold much more than just listening, this week's New Scientist reports.
Researchers who tested people working out on a machine called a Jymmin – which matches music to the speed of a workout found music halved the amount of effort gym users felt they were expending.
Tom Fritz of the Max Planck Institute, Leipzig, said: ‘It makes the music really pleasurable – you have the perception that you’re being really extremely musically expressive’.
Researchers suggest that music should be used more often to aid pain relief.
Sven Bringman of the Karolinska Institute, Sweden said: ‘Music is not used as much as it shouldbe because it takes more of a nurse’s time than just giving a sedative.’
Other beneficial effects of music include boosting our immune system and reviving memories – even in some people with Alzheimer’s disease.
Group drumming has been tried as a way of improving mood and reducing stress among the elderly, healthcare professionals and office workers – and found that members of the drumming circle had enhanced immune functioning.
