
A woman who went from a size ten to a size zero while battling a severe case of irritable bowel syndrome has revealed how she learned to love her body at a healthy size six after winning her 'mental battle' with eating.
As a teen Jenna Birch, 23, from Ann Arbor, Michigan, was a size ten competitive athlete who loaded up on food to fuel her body, which stayed the same size throughout college. However, when the writer turned 21 her body started to reject food, and she soon started withering away, going from a size ten to a four, before eventually shrinking to a size zero.

'At 5’8”, I hovered around 125 pounds for several years as I fought back against a conditioned fear of food, constantly reminding myself eating wasn’t going to hurt me,' she wrote in an essay for Yahoo Beauty.
Jenna recalled how even the plainest foods would keep her tethered to her bathroom for hours on end at the start of her illness. And it was only after nine months of testing that doctors determined that she had a severe case of IBS with fructose malabsorption.


Jenna was put on Nortriptyline, an antidepressant used to treat IBS, a 'godsend medication' that allowed her to slowly start incorporating a variety of foods into her diet again without any pain or suffering, yet she was still mentally conflicted when it came to eating.
'My subconscious still reeled at the thought of a burger or pizza or sushi,' she explained, adding: 'Although I was weighed less than I ultimately wanted to, I didn’t mind dressing a new body.'
Jenna admitted that she grew up admiring Kate Moss' slender figure and enjoyed being able to channel her look with skinny pants and 'cute little shift dresses'.
'I had a new appreciation for the slender body type,' she noted. 'It just wasn’t my body type. In actuality, it was simply on loan, borrowed until my health and relationship with food turned around.'
Last summer Jenna said she started winning her mental battle with eating, reacquainting herself with Italian and Mexican foods and dessert. However, she admitted the she grappled with putting weight on at first because women are trained to believe that losing weight was 'good' while gaining weight was 'bad'.
'It was tough to see the scale inch up as the weeks passed as I enjoyed foods with actual flavor again,' she recalled. 'I also hated having to rid my closet of the clothes that no longer fit me, bag by bag.'
'But these clothes were never meant for my body in the first place,' she added.
Jenna's dietitian gave her a goal weight of 140lbs, and when she reached it, everyone commented on how healthy she looked, yet she still missed her gamine figure.

It wasn't until her mother reminded her that she wasn't healthy before, and she wasn't meant to be that small, did she start to see her situation for what it was.
She noted that while some 'women are meant to be slender', she has a medium-sized frame and curves.
'A happy life at a size zero was, and never will be, in the cards for me,' she said. 'When I changed my mindset, I changed my life.'
Jenna said she stopped reprimanding herself for ordering pasta and she threw out all of her clothes from her 'ultra-thin' days because she accepted that she would never bet that size again.
She noted that is one year she 'had the pleasure of dressing two very different figures', however, she eventually started embracing her waistline and cleavage, building herself a new wardrobe that highlighted her 'God-given' body.

'My straight body wasn’t more beautiful than my curvy body, simply because I lost weight to obtain it. Every body is beautiful. Healthy bodies are beautiful - and they change all the time,' she explained.

