Woman dies after her headache turns out to be a BRAIN EATING bug | Daily Mail Online

A woman has died after her headache and vomiting turned out to be a rare but lethal brain-eating bug.
The 21-year-old from Bishop, California, died from an extremely uncommon infection called primary amoebic meningoencephalitis (PAM).
This is a rare disease of the central nervous system caused by infection from the microscopic amoeba Naegleria fowleri.
The woman was infected by the amoeba, which is usually found in soil and fresh, warm water, when swimming in Reno, Nevada.
The woman, whose identity has not been revealed by her family, died on June 20 at Reno Hospital, according to the Reno Gazette Journal.
Officials from Inyo Public health confirmed her death to journalists at the paper.
The woman woke up from a nap on June 16 with symptoms including a headache, nausea and vomiting.
A few days later her condition deteriorated until she suffered a cardiac arrest and died.
She is believed to have been infected on private land, and therefore there is no risk to the general public, the Reno Gazette Journal reported.
Humans are infected when water containing the amoeba enters the body through the nose.
It travels through the skull until it reaches the brain and begins to destroy the organ's tissue.
The amoeba is not thought to be infectious, as it has never been known to spread from one person to another.
The risk of contracting the disease is low, yet the stakes are high because the chance of dying once infected is almost 100 per cent, said Dr Richard Johnson, of Inyo Public Health.
'Our next steps are to inspect the suspected sites of exposure to find what risk factors might exist like places where people might go swimming and where the domestic water supply is on the property,' he told the paper's reporters.
'I advise people to be cautious when using untreated hot springs in the Sierras. The best way to do that is to keep your head above water,' he added.
According to the US Centers for Disease Controls and Prevention, in the 10 years from 2005 to 2014, 35 infections from the amoeba were reported in the U.S.
Of those cases, 31 people were infected by contaminated recreational water, three people were infected after performing nasal irrigation using contaminated tap water, and one person was infected by contaminated tap water used on a backyard slip-n-slide.
Last year, MailOnline reported on the story of Kali Hardig, who contracted amoebic meningoencephalitis at a water park in Arkansas and beat it against all odds.

Kali Hardig was diagnosed with the form of parasitic meningitis in July of 2013.
At the time, she was the third person in the US to survive the infection.
Before Kali, doctors could only point to one known survivor in the U.S. and another in Mexico.
Primary amoebic meningoencephalitis is as rare as it is horrific.
It is caused by an amoeba that implants itself in its victim's brains - usually when infected water shoots up their noses.
The amoeba needs very specific conditions to thrive. It grows in the sediment at the bottom of pools of warm, stagnant water and is most active at about 85 degrees.
The water must reach a relatively high temperature for the parasites to reach numbers that threaten humans.
Health officials have recorded only 125 instances of the disease in the United States in the last 50 years.
Only one person has survived in the United States. One other survivor was found in Mexico.
Health officials say swimmers can reduce their risks even further by keeping their heads above water, using nose clips or holding the nose shut when the head is submerged and by avoid stirring up sediment in shallow areas.

