Women with breast implants are THREE times more likely to commit suicide | Daily Mail Online

Women with breast implants are nearly three times as likely to commit suicide, according to new research.
They are also three times as likely to die from alcohol or drug use, the study found.
The findings reinforce previous research which revealed women who undergo surgery to enlarge their breasts are at an increased risk of suicide.
Researchers said the higher rate could be because women who choose to have the surgery may already have psychiatric disorders, including low self-esteem or issues with body image.
To arrive at their conclusions, the researchers followed 3,527 Swedish women who had cosmetic breast implant surgery between 1965 and 1993.
They looked at death certificates to analyse how they died.
Only 24 of the women had committed suicide after an average of 19 years.
But this worked out to triple the risk compared to the average population, the researchers reported.
'The increased risk of suicide was not apparent until 10 years after implantation,' the researchers wrote.
Dr Loren Lipworth, of the Vanderbilt University Medical Center, who carried out the research, said doctors who perform cosmetic breast surgery may want to monitor patients closely or screen them for suicide risk.
Some women who get implants may have psychiatric problems to start with, perhaps linked with lower self-esteem or body image disorders, she said.
'I think we don't even know how big of a problem it is because we cannot even pinpoint what proportion of women have psychiatric disorders,' Dr Lipworth told Reuters.
'There could be a whole lot of different disorders.'
Women with breast implants also had a tripled risk of death from alcohol and drug use.
'At least 38 deaths (22 per cent of all deaths)…were associated with suicide, psychological disorders and/or drug and alcohol abuse/dependence,' the researchers wrote.
However, they found women with breast implants were no more likely to die of cancer, including breast cancer.
They were more likely to die from lung cancer and respiratory diseases, such as emphysema, but this is probably because they were more likely to smoke, the researchers said.
The study comes after Canadian scientists last year found a higher risk of suicide among women who had surgery to enlarge their breasts, although they had lower rates of other diseases, including cancer.
The study was published in the journal Annals of Plastic Surgery.
For years, breast augmentation has  been the most common cosmetic procedure in the UK, according to the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons.
In the US, it was the second most common cosmetic procedure, after liposuction.
For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.samaritans.org
