

Got questions about psoriasis? WebMD is here with answers, from the most basic issues to more complicated topics.
Recently, a couple of leading skin experts took questions from our Psoriasis Community. Here are highlights from the online chat with Colby Evans, MD, and Mary Ruth Buchness, MD.
What causes psoriasis? Is anyone researching the disease?
A number of things might play a role in causing the condition, including genetics, contact with certain things in the environment, and changes in skin bacteria.
The current leader in the field of research is the National Psoriasis Foundation, which gives grants to scientists studying the disease.
On the government side, the National Institutes of Health also provide funding for studying psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
“This type of research has helped us understand that psoriasis starts with the immune system attacking the skin when it shouldn’t," says Colby Evans, MD, a dermatologist in Austin, Texas. It’s the basis for many of the new treatments that have come online in the last few years.
I'm not sure if I have eczema or psoriasis. How do I tell the difference?
They can be hard to tell apart. The best way to make sure you have the right diagnosis and treatment plan is to see a board-certified dermatologist.
Eczema tends to start in childhood on the folds of the elbows and behind your knees. It’s very itchy and sometimes gets infected. Many children grow out of it, but not everyone does.
Psoriasis can start at any age, but most commonly it begins between 20 and 50. It usually shows up on your scalp, elbows, knees, and lower back with pink areas and thick scales. “Although it can itch, it doesn’t always,” Evans says.
My worst triggers for psoriasis are hot and cold weather. What others should I look out for?
They can be different for every person. Common ones include emotional stress, physical stress (like surgery or having a baby), certain medications, and winter weather.
“The sun often makes psoriasis better,” Evans says. The condition may flare up during the winter or when you travel to places that aren’t sunny.
