http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3144359/Teenager-weighed-32st-age-18-told-die-6-months-sheds-half-body-weight-model.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
32st teenager Bethany Churcher has gastric band surgery to become a model | Daily Mail Online

At just 18 years old, Bethany Churcher weighed 32 stone and was told she would be dead in six months.
The teenager's size meant she had already suffered a mini stroke and needed emergency surgery on her gall bladder, an operation doctors warned her family she may not survive.

Miss Churcher, from Beaulieu in Hampshire, was diagnosed with compulsive eating disorder at age 14, when she weighed a huge 18 stone.
By the age of 16, she had ballooned to 25 stone and wore size 26 clothes after secretly eating packets of crisps in her room.
Keen to lose weight, she visited the doctors and pretended she was 18 so she would be eligible for gastric bypass surgery.
Her parents, Amanda and Neil Churcher, now 47 and 49, found out about this and banned her from having surgery.
But when she was warned if she did not lose weight she would die, doctors agreed she could have the £5,000 taxpayer-funded surgery.
It was successful but she was left with 10Ibs (4.5kg) of excess skin which she privately paid £10,000 to have sliced off, after moaning she 'looked like an old woman'.
Now 16 stone and a size 16, Miss Churcher is happier than ever – and working as a model.
Speaking publically for the first time, the now 21-year-old said she wants to help others with compulsive eating disorder.
'I am a cautionary tale,' she said. 'I don't want others to be like me.'
She spoke out as Britain's fattest man, 65-stone Carl Thompson, died aged just 33 at home in Dover, Kent, from an obesity-related illness.
Miss Churcher, who has a brother, Joshua, 25, and sister, Hannah, 26, said: 'It terrifies me I could get that big again.
Compulsive eating disordetr, or binge eating disorder (BED), is a serious mental illness where people experience a loss of control and overeat on a regular basis.
People who binge eat consume very large quantities of food over a short period of time (called bingeing) and they often eat even when they are not hungry.
It is not about eating extra large portions. Binges are usually planned like a ritual and can involve the person buying "special" binge foods.
Binge eating usually takes place in private.
People will often have feelings of guilt, disgust at their lack of control after binge eating. Unlike those with bulimia, people who binge eat do not purge themselves in an attempt to control their weight.
Binge eating episodes are associated with eating much more rapidly than normal, eating until feeling uncomfortably full, eating large amounts of food when not physically hungry, eating alone through embarrassment at the amount being eaten and feeling disgust or extreme guilt after overeating.
BED is associated with marked distress and if someone binges at least once a week over a period of three months or more, they could have binge eating disorder.
People may also have low self esteem and lack of confidence, depression and anxiety.Many people with binge eating disorder are overweight or obese which can lead to high blood pressure, high cholesterol, type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
Binge eating affects men and women equally and the condition tends to be more common in adults than in younger people.
Source: BEAT

'But I've promised myself I won't let that happen.
'I don't want to put my life at risk.'
Now, she is working with young people, trying to ensure they can get help earlier if they have problems, rather than turning to food.
Miss Churcher said: 'My compulsive eating was all to do with how I was feeling.
'If something upset me, I comfort ate.
'I ate and ate until food became the only thing that made me happy.
'I hated how I looked, but by the time I was 14 I was so big I thought it would take forever to lose weight - so it was easier to continue eating.'
She claimed the operation was not the easy way out, saying: 'After the operation my need to eat didn't go away overnight.
'I craved chocolate and crisps, but the surgery meant now I couldn't longer stuff myself.
'Sometimes I tried to gorge, but it just gave me an upset stomach.'
Her mother, who was 22-stone, but lost 8 stone after being inspired by her daughter, added: 'We never wanted our kids rebelling and gorging on junk food in secret so we let them have crisps or chocolate as a treat. But that's what Bethany did.
'When we confronted her she burst into tears and said she couldn't stop eating.
'So she started to see a counsellor.
'She was so upset with her body though, she turned to food to cheer herself up.
'She said food was the only thing that made her happy.'
Mrs Churcher described the situation as 'heartbreaking'.
She continued: 'Bethany wanted to look like her friends, not a size 22, and struggle not to breathe when she walked.
'But I couldn't watch her 24/7 and she confessed that she continued to snack in secret.
'I suggested going on a diet and her brother offered to take her to the gym.
'But she said everyone stared at her on the running machine and she never went back.'
Mrs Churcher was shocked after learning her daughter had secretly visited the doctor to enquire about bariatric surgery.
'I was devastated she wanted to go to such extremes,' she said. 'She weighed 32 stone and begged me for surgery but I had to say no. She was only 17.
'I asked my husband what he thought about the bypass. He didn't like the idea but was OK to her having a consultation.
'After she was booked in for an operation in six months time, Bethany smiled for the first time. She was so happy she was going to be thin.'
Miss Churcher, who is now studying drama and theatre arts, as well as working as a waitress and a model, had the consultation in June 2011.
But a month later she started getting chest pains and doctors said she would need surgery to remove her gall bladder.
She had gall stones caused by fatty deposits building up in her system.
'They said they wouldn't normally operate on someone so big,' her mother said.
'They wanted her to lose weight first.
'There was a risk that Bethany could die on the table, but they had no choice.
'I choked back tears as we said goodbye before the operation.
'I realised it could have been the last time we saw our daughter alive.'
Weeks after the gall bladder surgery, Miss Churcher suffered crippling headaches, blurred vision, and felt sick.
It emerged she had a swelling behind her eyes caused by pressure from a fluid build-up on her brain.
Left untreated she could go blind. It was a condition common to morbidly obese people. 'She told me she thought she was going to die,' her mother recalled.
'She gave me letters addressed to all of us and said if anything happened to her I'd hand them out.
'I told her she was going to be OK, but I was heartbroken.'
The family was told Bethany had to lose weight or she'd have just six to nine months to live.
'It was hard to hear but she had been so unwell with her weight that it wasn't a surprise,' Mrs Churcher said.
In January 2012 – one month before her gastric bypass surgery – Miss Churcher had a mini-stroke.
'When I got to see her, she asked me if she could still have the operation,' her mother said.
'That's all she wanted, despite everything she'd been through – to lead a normal life.'
In February 2012, aged 18, Miss Churcher signed the consent forms for the procedure.
'She was warned there was a chance she could die,' Mrs Churcher said. 'But she said, "if I don't do this, I'm going to die anyway".
'I cried as she was taken to surgery.'
Nine hours later, Mrs Churcher was allowed to see her daughter again.
Afterwards she was allowed home, where the procedure she'd had meant she had a smaller stomach and could only take spoon-sized, pureed meals.
'Bethany never complained though,' Mrs Churcher said. 'And soon we started to see results.
'Her clothes became baggier with time and a year on she'd lost 11 stone.'
Miss Churcher continued to lose weight with a fitness and weight loss program, called Body by Vi, and a year later had lost a further seven stone.
But this rapid weight loss left her with sagging skin around her arms, breasts, legs and waist.
'The gastric bypass had saved her life but she now moaned about looking like an old woman and worse than before,' her mother said.
In July 2013, private surgeons cut skin from her arms and breasts, leaving her with a size 16 body.
Her mother said the transformation has drastically improved her daughter's love life.
She said: 'She gets a lot of male attention, which she's shocked by and I have to remind her that she's a beautiful.
'Her confidence has never been better, and like before, she enjoys singing again – something she loved before she put on all the weight.'
'She even plucked up the courage to start working for a plus-size model agency.'
Miss Churcher is now running a charity to help other young people like her.
'She learnt that comfort eating was a quick fix to her problems and compulsive eating disorder is a mental condition,' her mother said.
'So now she's helping to fix people's problems, by getting them to discuss them rather than eating.
'She's amazing.'
An NHS England spokesperson said: 'Major surgery like a gastric bypass is only considered as a last resort after a patient has received extensive non-surgical support, and prevention is always preferable.'
Jonathan Isaby, Chief Executive of the Taxpayers' Alliance, added: 'These procedures should never be prioritised ahead of individual responsibility but of course in instances where people's lives are in danger they should be offered as a last resort.
'The important thing is that we try and find better treatments earlier in the process, as well as firmly encouraging people to take responsibility for their own health.'
For more information visit BEAT charity on eating disorders at http://www.b-eat.co.uk/about-eating-disorders/types-of-eating-disorder/binge-eating-disorder