http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3143625/NHS-cancer-therapy-little-Ashya-King-s-parents-fought-finally-comes-NHS-bought-wrong-miracle-proton-beam-machines.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Ashya King’s cancer therapy comes to the NHS but they might have the wrong machine | Daily Mail Online

Walking into an optician’s to get her daughter Erin’s eyes tested last July, Rachael Birdsey’s biggest concern was how she would persuade her six-year-old that it wouldn’t be the end of the world if she needed glasses.
Erin had been complaining of headaches and feeling sick.
‘She had also been irritable, but at first I wondered if it was just her little brother getting on her nerves,’ says Rachael.
Scroll down for video
The GP thought the problem could be Erin’s vision and sent her to have her eyes checked, which was when the optometrist noticed that one looked inflamed and sent Erin straight to hospital with her mother and father James, 35.
‘He said: “I need you to go to the hospital because there’s something pressing on Erin’s eyeball,” says Rachael, 35, of Northwich, Cheshire.
‘It was then alarm bells started ringing in my head, but you try to keep a silly grin on your face. I was telling Erin it’s all fine. Inside you’re absolutely crumbling.’
Within 24 hours Erin had surgery to remove a brain tumour and a few months later the family travelled to Florida, where Erin had proton beam therapy — the treatment thrust into the spotlight by the story of five-year-old Ashya King.
Ashya’s parents were arrested after they took him from an NHS hospital to Prague to have the treatment privately. They have since said proton beam therapy has left Ashya free of brain cancer.
Six months into her treatment, Erin is back at school with few signs of what she has been through. However, experts warn it is not the miracle cure some say it is.
Professor Karol Sikora, a cancer specialist and NHS consultant for 35 years, says proton beam therapy would not help most people with cancer: ‘People think it’s a magic ray gun, but it’s not.’
Yet the NHS recently said it will spend £250 million on two proton beam centres that some claim will be outdated before they open in 2018.
Meanwhile, a private proton beam therapy centre in Wales should be open by Christmas 2016.
Instead of x-rays, proton beam therapy uses tiny particles of atoms known as protons.
Dr Nicky Thorp, associate medical director at The Clatterbridge Cancer Centre in Liverpool, says: ‘Protons aren’t used because they increase the chance of cure; it’s because the way they travel through the tissue means you can ensure they don’t go deeper than you want them to.
‘It’s a different sort of radiation but, dose for dose, the effect on tumour cells is the same.’
The protons stop abruptly and deposit most of their energy at the cancer site.
‘The tissue beyond the cancer does not get any radiation,’ says Professor Sikora. ‘It is particularly useful when there is a critical tissue, such as the spinal cord or optic nerve, just beyond.’
This reduces the risk of side effects as a result of damage to healthy tissue; particularly important in children, who can experience problems with cognitive development, growth and fertility even years later as a result.
Ashya King was offered conventional radiotherapy and chemotherapy, but his parents feared the potential side effects.
Proton beam therapy in Britain is available only for eye tumours at the Clatterbridge Cancer Centre — it is offered to less than 1 per cent of cancer patients.
It is available on the NHS for other cancers, mostly brain tumours, but patients must go overseas for it. It is typically offered to children, but the age limit has been raised to 24.
Professor Sikora estimates about 15,000 patients a year would benefit from it — around 10 per cent of those who have conventional radiotherapy each year.
Since 2008, the NHS has funded a small number of patients to have proton beam therapy at one of two centres in the U.S.
By last November, 522 patients had been treated there. All cases go before a review board and, if approved, the NHS funds the treatment, flights and accommodation. This costs about £90,000 per patient.
The two NHS proton beam therapy centres will open in 2018 at The Christie hospital, Manchester, and University College London Hospital (UCLH). It is hoped they will treat 1,500 patients a year.
However, concerns have been raised because newer, cheaper machines are available and they need fewer staff, says Professor Sikora, who is advising the company behind the private proton beam centre in Wales.
‘I’ve no idea why the NHS has gone for these bigger machines,’ he says. ‘They cost three times as much as some of the alternatives.’
However, Dr Yen-Ching Chang, consultant clinical oncologist at UCLH, argues that the NHS machines will be used to treat complex cases.
‘We need machines that can deliver protons into the body at every angle,’ she says.
‘Not all of the smaller units can offer the 360- degree access our machines will have. They just deliver the beam from one or two directions.’
For parents such as Erin’s, being able to have treatment closer to home would undoubtedly be a benefit.
It was just hours after seeing the optician that doctors at Manchester Children’s Hospital told them that Erin had a tumour on the right side of her brain just behind her eyes and needed immediate surgery.
‘When you’re told, you’re taken into a little room and there’s lots of faces just looking at you,’ says Rachael.
‘Watching their mouths open and shut, it felt as if they were talking to someone else.
‘I didn’t cry — not then — I was trying my hardest not to get upset because you want to take in as much information as you can.’
Erin’s surgery took ten hours. Biopsy results and an MRI scan a week later revealed that the tumour, which had been the size of a plum, was a grade 2 ependymoma, a type of cancer of the cells that line fluid-filled spaces in the brain and the spinal cord. Only half of children diagnosed with it live for more than five years.
To remove any tiny cancer cells remaining, the oncology team thought she should be put forward for proton beam therapy.
If she was turned down, she could still have conventional radiotherapy, though the risk of side effects would be much greater.
To Rachael and James’s overwhelming relief, Erin’s application was approved and a week later, in September last year, they were on a plane to Florida.
‘It was a shock when they told us it would have to be done in America,’ says Rachael.
‘We had been through so much to then have that thrown at us, especially when they said we would have to be there for ten weeks. The Christie [hospital] was fantastic in sorting everything out for us, though.’
The treatment was straightforward. Erin had to lie still on a table under the machine for 40 minutes a day.
‘She just got on with it,’ says Rachael. ‘She astounded us.’
access to treatments such as proton beam therapy is just one facet in improving survival rates for brain tumour patients.
The Brain Tumour Charity has recently launched a five-year strategy, Defeating Brain Tumours, which aims to double survival rates and says early diagnosis is key to this.
Sarah Lindsell, the charity’s chief executive, says: ‘Brain tumours are the biggest cancer killer of children and adults under 40 in the UK.
'While survival has doubled across all cancers, ten-year survival rates for brain tumours have improved little for adults in over 40 years. This must change.’
Erin has just celebrated her seventh birthday and her first scan came back clear.
‘There are ongoing issues, so it’s not a fairy tale,’ says Rachael. ‘She has permanently lost the peripheral vision in her left eye.’
Erin has also had some hair loss and has weakness in her left arm.
‘In many ways, we were so lucky,’ says Rachael. ‘Erin was diagnosed relatively early. I am thankful every day to the optician who spotted it.’
Of the proton beam therapy, she says: ‘I know how much it costs, but my little girl is still here. you can’t put a price on that.’
thebraintumourcharity.org
