http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3144712/What-s-like-hear-live-music-time-Moving-video-shows-woman-deaf-age-40-listening-favourite-artists-Glastonbury.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Deaf woman Joanne Milne hears her favourite songs at Glastonbury for first time | Daily Mail Online

Bobbing up and down on the spot, straw hat on and with a huge smile on her face, she looks like any other festival goer.
But for most of Joanne Milne's life, it was a scenario she could only dream of.
Until last year, the 41-year-old's world had been silent.
Born with the rare condition Usher Syndrome, Ms Milne, from Gateshead, had been deaf since birth.
In her mid-20s, the cruel condition also began to claim her sight.
However she made the headlines last year when she became able to hear for the first time, thanks to cochlear implants.


As she heard words being spoken to her for the first time, moving images showed her overwhelmed with emotion, fighting back tears and gasping to catch her breath.
This weekend, she achieved another dream - going to Glastonbury for the first time.
Watch the moment Jo heard Burt Bacharach live for the first time at Glastonbury...
After speaking on BBC Radio 5 live back in April, Ms Milne explained her dream was to one day go to Glastonbury. The organisers of the festival heard her and offered her a ticket.
Yesterday, the station captured a heartwarming video clip of her at the festival, watching Burt Bacharach sing live.
Ms Milne told 5 live's Entertainment Correspondent, Colin Paterson: 'I had no idea he actually wrote some of my favourite songs, in particular, the Look of Love by Dusty Springfield....look at him...he's a beautiful sophisticated man...'
Another highlight was seeing Lionel Ritchie live.
'I grew up knowing about Lionel Richie because my sisters used to like him...but I'm here, he's up there on the stage and I'm watching the guy and it's absolutely incredible.
'I remember in the 1980s in our old house and they played all their vinyl, I can always remember Lionel Richie's face on the floor.'
After undergoing the life-changing operation early last year, Ms Milne faced an agonising four-week wait for medics to switch on the implants to see if the operation had been a success.
Hearing for first time, a video capturing the switch-on shows Ms Milne breaking down as she tells her doctor her own voice sounds 'very, very strange', before adding: 'Wow, it is absolutely amazing.'
Ms Milne said at the time the switch-on had been the 'most emotional and overwhelming experience' of her life.
She said: 'I'm still in shock now. I have to learn to recognise what these sounds are as I build a sound library in my brain.
'Hearing things for the first time is so emotional from the ping of a light switch to running water.
The remarkable moment Ms Milne's implants were switched on was captured on video and shared by Ms Milne's friend Tremayne Crossley.

The 40-year-old burst into tears as her doctor recited the days of the week, and urged her to listen to her own voice for the first time
She told her doctor: 'Wow, it is absolutely amazing', adding the switch-on was the 'most emotional and overwhelming' experience of her life.
