http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3147632/Go-run-hands-feet-warm-NEVER-nap-30-minutes-ensure-perfect-night-s-sleep.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
How to get the perfect night's sleep from exercise to keeping warm | Daily Mail Online

When you're desperate to get a real night of rest, it may be tempting to just knock back some ZzzQuil and let it work its magic - but one new animated video series is aiming to get people to try a few natural tactics for sleeping better first.
Video content studio Flikli has put together 10 short, informative clips created to help improve 'sleep health'.
While some of the minute-long animated videos offer interesting information about the sleep cycle and the history of sleep patterns, others get right down to business with proven tricks for fading off faster once your head hits the pillow.

Doctors recommended getting six to eight hours of sleep a day, but many people find it hard to conk out when it's time for lights out.
One contributing factor, according to the videos, was the invention of the light bulb.
Artificial light sources inhibit the body from releasing the hormones that trigger sleep, so it's best to move computers and televisions outside the bedroom and avoid smartphones and tablets before hitting the sack.
And unfortunately for Sparky, it seems that pets should be banned from the bed, too.
There are other ways to 'optimize your sleep space' besides locking the dog otu. In one clip, it is recommended that you keep a cool environment - the ideal temperature being 65 degrees Fahrenheit - but be sure that hands and feet stay warm, even it means wearing socks.


Establishing a 'pre-sleep routine'  which can include aromatherapy, stretching, thinking positive thoughts, and listening to a relaxing song, can help as well. Counting sheep, reading, controlling breathing, and mediating can also make a difference when you're struggling to slumber.
A common myth that is addressed is the idea that it's OK to fall behind on sleep during the week, because you can then just 'catch up' on weekends.
That doesn't really work, one video says - and you shouldn't make up for lost REM cycles with long naps, either, as snoozing for more than 30 minutes during the day can make it harder to sleep at night.
In fact, it's best to be consistent with your sleep cycle. Catching the same amount of Zzz's every night, during the same hours, can teach your body to sleep more effectively.
But what about when you finally do doze off? Another clip explains that the position in which you sleep can impact your well-being, too.

'Research shows that good posture during sleep can improve your mood and lower health risks,' a narrator says, but there are pros and cons to each position.
For example, sleeping on your back relieves your spine of pressure - though you are also more likely to snore while facing upward.
'People who sleep on their side report lower instances of heartburn and indigestion,' the narrator continues, 'but they can also experience severe pins and needles in their arms and legs'
Sleeping on stomach can cause damage to back and neck, but if this is how you are most comfortable, you can reduce pressure by placing pillows under your hips and soldiers.
One video from Flikli also notes that people may be able to function on less than eight hours of sleep - if they schedule their snoozing correctly.
'It's possible to schedule your sleep more efficiently, so you're asleep for fewer hours and have more waking hours in the day,' the clip explains.
The most common sleep pattern is called monophasic, and it entails getting about 8 hours of sleep at a time.
Other sleep patterns involve less time in bed, with shorter periods of sleep that occur several times throughout the day. One of the most extreme examples, called the 'uberman' sleep pattern, requires only 1.8 hours of sleep, which spaced throughout the day in six 20-minute naps.
However, no one should attempt the 'uberman' without consulting with a doctor first, since not getting enough rest can be dangerous. Not nodding off for long enough can increase the level of the stress hormone cortisol in the body and throw off a  person's appetite - which can lead to an increased risk of heart attack, stroke, obesity, or an irregular heartbeat.
