http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3144263/Tragedy-7-year-old-girl-dies-two-days-hours-GP-mistakes-acute-appendicitis-stomach-bug.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Malaika Adam dies after out-of-hours GP mistakes acute appendicitis for a bug | Daily Mail Online

A seven-year-old girl died two days after an out-of-hours GP mistook acute appendicitis for a stomach bug.
Malaika Adam, from Basildon, Essex, was diagnosed as suffering gastroenteritis, after complaining of an upset tummy.
Her worried mother, Donna Howe, 38, questioned the doctor at an out-of-hours clinic about the possibility her daughter could be suffering appendicitis, but was told Malaika had a stomach bug.
Two days later, Malaika died at Basildon University Hospital, after suffering a cardiac arrest.
Chelmsford's Coroner's Court heard how Malaika had been complaining of diarrhoea for two days before seeing the doctor.
Mrs Howe said: 'I asked the doctor could it be her appendix and I was told "no".
'I've lost one of the most precious things in my life. There are no words to describe what a loss it is, to be honest.'
The inquest heard Malaika went to see a doctor on May 13 this year.
Two days later, she continued to deteriorate and suffered cardiac arrest.
The primary school pupil was rushed to Basildon Hospital on May 15, but sadly died suddenly at 10.44pm.
A post-mortem examination gave a provisional cause of death as peritonitis, caused by acute appendicitis with perforation.
This meant her appendix had burst and released bacteria into her body.
Hundreds of people turned out for Malaika's funeral and her school held a special assembly and released white helium balloons to celebrate her life.
Pink and purple balloons were seen all over Basildon after her grieving brothers and sisters decorated the funeral route.
Coroner Caroline Beasley-Murray adjourned the full inquest into Malaika's death until later this year.
Speaking after her daughter's death, devastated Mrs Howe paid tribute to Malaika.
She said: 'Malaika was the centre of attention and she loved people and loved making them smile.
'She really had an infectious smile.'
Her grandmother Cheryl Lee, 59, also paid tribute to her granddaughter, who leaves behind 11 brothers and sisters.
She said: 'The doctors were so good, they tried for hours to bring her back.
'She was always healthy and we are just in shock.
'She was lovely and always smiling.'
Her headteacher, Nuala Cashell, said: 'Malaika was a wonderful child who brought joy to all of our hearts.
'She was loved by both pupils and staff for her caring, considerate and happy nature.
'I feel so lucky as a headteacher to have known such a wonderful little girl.'
Malaika's grieving family are now planning to build a memorial garden to honour her, paid for by a sponsored walk.
'Malaika was always playing in the garden with her brothers and sister and we thought it would be a good way to remember her,' she said.

'She used to play with her two-year-old sister Khaleesi in the garden and now she keeps asking where Malaika has gone.
'We thought it would be a good thing for Khaleesi to have to work on.
'Her hair has started to fall out because of all of this and this will be a way for her to focus and remember her sister.'
The family hope to plant a cherry tree and plants in memory of Malaika.
Ms Howe said: 'We're grateful for all the support we've received and if people want to donate we would really appreciate it.'
The family hope to raise about £1,200 for the garden.
To find out more, visit the Facebook group 'Malaika (Angel) Adams Fund Raising Group'.