http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3148049/It-like-coming-injury-Mum-29-lifted-weights-pregnancy-shows-incredibly-toned-body-just-three-months-giving-birth-baby-boy.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Marika Magriplis who lifted weights throughout pregnancy flaunts post-baby body | Daily Mail Online

A 29-year-old former body building champion from Sydney who gave birth three months ago has credited her healthy baby boy to the nutrition and fitness regime she upheld during her pregnancy.
Marika Magriplis returned to the gym five weeks after baby Antonio was born and even does core strengthening exercises, like planking, while he naps.
However her return to training was not immediate after she contracted an infection due to being induced during her 20-hour labor that saw her back in hospital nine days after giving birth.
'It was like coming back from an injury, I had to regroup body parts,' Ms Magriplis told Daily Mail Australia.
Scroll down for video

Ms Magriplis started doing light walks two weeks after giving birth and said she would have started sooner if it was not for the 'delayed recovery' due to her infection.
The 29-year-old found the initial return to her routine difficult due to baby Antonio suffering from separation anxiety.
'He was quite needy,' she said. 'It really hindered getting back into it.'
However after a few weeks of figuring out his feeding and sleeping schedule - and the added convenience of an anytime fitness pass -  she was able to train again.
'I was walking to help with my recovery and did my first gym session after five weeks and did a light upper body session,' she said.
She also involves Antonio in her regime by taking him in the pram on her walks and stopping at park benches to do squats.
She believes the regime she upheld during her pregnancy was the reason her baby has not had reflux, is really 'switched on' and has fantastic muscle tone.
Before her pregnancy, Ms Magriplis was doing 70 kilogram squats and believes she will be able to come back even better.
She has already worked her way back to 40 kilograms and is increasing the weight by five kilograms a week.


Because Ms Magriplis was breastfeeding her baby, she did not restrict her calorie intake and 'listened to her body' and credits her healthy eating to her healthy baby.
'The nutrition I had during my pregnancy is why he feeds so well,' she said.
'He was switched on when he was first born and is really advanced for his age... The doctors have all made reference to his impressive muscle tone.'
While she has added more protein and fats to her breakfast diet to avoid crashing, she follows her principles of consuming fibrous and rich foods to 'keep her body in tune' and also ensures she takes a green and fibre supplement daily.
She believes her supplements helped with Antonio's brain development.
Her breakfast includes coconut oil in her coffees and a lean meat with some green vegetables.
'My bowels are still sluggish from the pregnancy and my organs are recovering, so you need to look after it,' she said.
Ms Magriplis believes she will need up to a year to recover and is 'not adding any additional pressure' and is 'taking it easy.'
After she became pregnant with her first child, Marika took advice from her chiropractor, midwife and physio and adapted her workout routine and diet.
Morning
Multi-grain bread, oats, or muesli with fruit. Or eggs on toast.
Snack
Greek yoghurt and nuts. Or a nut and muesli bar when nauseous.
'I couldn’t even think about eating chicken and greens. The thought of it just made me want to throw up, it was a big adjustment,' Marika said.
Lunch
Tuna as well as fresh fruit.
Dinner
Similar to before pregnancy.
'I started to think cravings were a myth and I only had indigestion once in my whole pregnancy,' Marika said.
'I also alkalised my body with alkaline greens, that’s really important to help prevent acid reflux.
'Also fish oil capsules have helped with my brain function and baby's developing brain.'


Since giving birth to Antonio and starting to breastfeed, Ms Magriplis has included more calories and healthy fats into her diet to avoid crashing.
Morning
Lean meat such as chicken or beef, or an egg with a side of bacon or greens such as cucumber on the side.
A coffee with coconut oil
Snack
Handful of nuts, museli bar or fruit.
Lunch
Fish or chicken with some salad and some nuts
Snack
A little bit of dark chocolate or some pizza shapes.
'I don't deprive myself, I'm not on a strict regime... I just keep it healthy when I can'
Dinner
Similar to before and during pregnancy, but making sure she includes protein and good fats.
'You need to stay on top of the amount of protein you are eating as your body is taking from you to develop this human and breastfeed and you don’t want it to take from your muscles instead.'

Her advice for other women is to not be afraid to exercise during pregnancy, just be smart about it by seeking advice from a professional that knows your body.
'I'm going to build up my strength and hopefully I can come back better.'
After becoming pregnant she adapted her training, with the help of experts, by reducing her weight sessions each trimester and including more calorie-dense foods into her diet to feed her growing bump.
'I started to think cravings were a myth and I only had indigestion once in my whole pregnancy,' she told Daily Mail Australia in March.
‘My training became more about core strengthening than building,’ she said.
‘Maintaining my strength helped to take the load off. At one stage – about halfway through my pregnancy I had really bad back pain because I made the weights too light - my body needed the strength,’ she explained.

