http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3147389/The-breast-way-stay-cool-New-mother-invents-novel-way-keeping-baby-comfortable-UK-s-heatwave-expressing-milk-freezing-lollies.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
New mother keeps baby cool by freezing her breast milk into lollies | Daily Mail Online

A mother found a novel way to keep her son cool on the hottest July day on record - making him an ice lolly from her expressed breast milk.
Kathryn Ward, 38, created the frozen treat for four-month-old Torin using a standard ice lolly mould and the leftover breast milk from a bottle.
Torin is still being solely breastfed, but after chatting with other mums on a parenting Facebook page, Kathryn realised the ice lollies would be a great way to cool her son down during the heatwave.
Scroll down for video
The mum-of-two  said: 'Torin has been a bit miserable lately as he's teething, plus the weather's been so hot, that I thought it was something he might enjoy.
'And he did - he wolfed it down!
'He can't have anything other than breast milk because he's so young.
'When I first saw a post about the baby-sized lolly moulds designed for breast milk, I thought it sounded really strange. But then the weather got hotter and hotter and I decided to give it a go.
'I'd been expressing milk anyway so my husband could bottle-feed Torin, and I just found a normal-sized lolly mould in the cupboard and made it with that at first.
'I decided that if he liked it, I would buy the baby version.'
She continued: 'He liked it so much he tried to shove the whole thing in his mouth, so I think I'll be making a lot more for him.'
Kathryn runs a touring theatre company called '2 Boards and a Passion' with husband Colin, who she describes as a doting and 'hands-on' dad.
They are also parents to ten-year-old Sophie, who was unable to breastfeed as a baby, and Colin's five older children.
Kathryn said: 'With Sophie I tried to breastfeed for a few weeks, but for whatever reason she just didn't take to it.
'I expressed milk for as long as I could with her but never tried out the ice lollies as I didn't know it was possible! It's just luck that I've been able to breastfeed Torin so easily.'
She continued: 'I think there's so much pressure on new mums to breastfeed and a lot of guilt surrounding it.
'I had no idea whether Torin would take to the ice lolly. One mum on Facebook tried it out and her son hated it because it was too cold on his gums.
'But for Torin it's a welcome change from the same old warm breast milk. His lips did get a bit cold after a while so I took it away then - he didn't have a whole one in one go.'
Kathryn added: 'Now that I know he loves it, I will definitely order some more moulds. The baby ones come with little plastic handles for babies to grip them properly.
'The breast milk seems to melt very quickly, so Torin made quite a mess with it. At least half ended up on his T-shirt!
'I'm going to make a whole batch for when it's hot, and when he's a bit bigger I can puree fruit and add that to the milk to make flavoured ones. I'd definitely recommend other mums try it out.'
