http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3146357/I-defied-family-weight-loss-op-FAR-drastic-gastric-band-Radio-4-star-Jenni-Murray-lost-two-stone-two-weeks.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Radio 4's Jenni Murray has lost two stone in two weeks after gastric surgery | Daily Mail Online

When I wake, rather groggily, it's nearly 11pm. My son Charlie is at my side, clearly relieved I'm still alive, but his brow is creased with concern: Am I in pain?
Frankly, I'm not really able to answer him. I'm not even sure I am in discomfort: anaesthetic and painkillers tend to addle the brain.
I'm grateful he's taken the trouble to hang on in the hospital for me to open my eyes, but I soon drift off again.
Scroll down for video
The following day he shows me a picture he'd taken of me in the recovery suite and sent to his dad and older brother. Thanks, son. It's not a pretty sight!
I'd just undergone gastric surgery to help me lose the weight I've struggled with for years. It's something I've long thought about after witnessing the positive effect of gastric bands on colleagues Vanessa Feltz and Fern Britton.
My doctor had frequently warned me that obesity posed a great risk to my health: it wouldn't be a life-saving operation, exactly, but it could certainly be life-extending.
The pioneering procedure I opted for is a rather more drastic measure than a band. Called a sleeve gastrectomy, it is — unlike a gastric band — irreversible, reducing the volume of the stomach from around two litres to approximately 100ml. If you try to eat too much subsequently (more than a few spoonfuls), you will, quite simply, be sick.
My husband and our two sons were initially against the idea. I've had surgery for cancer and dodgy hips and they worried about me going under the knife again.
Charlie was the most vehemently opposed. At 28, he's young, fit and slender. He accused me of taking the easy way out, saying I should simply go on a diet instead — not unlike those who criticised me when I wrote of my decision to opt for surgery in this paper a year ago.
But, so far, I'm convinced it was the right decision for me. Two weeks after the op, I'm surprised at how little pain there's been — only a slight grumbling sensation as if hungry and five tiny scars covered in plasters.
Still, surgery is never to be taken lightly, and I know I will have to come to terms with my new, relatively straitened lifestyle. Will I ever drink wine again? Or share a birthday cake or pass a bakery without feeling like a deprived Bisto kid?
My surgeon warned me not to become obsessed with daily steps on to the weighing scales. It's hard to resist, but I did wait for two weeks and the result was a welcome delight. Two stone had simply fallen away.
The weight loss will slow as I move from liquid and purees to a proper diet as the stomach heals. However, I would hope to have lost half my original weight of 20 st within the year.
But don't dare think vanity the driving force. Yes, it will be nice to be able to do up a pair of jeans or slip into a swimming costume — you do get absolutely sick of ignorant young men shouting, 'Fat b****!' as they pass you in the street.
There was only one motivation for me: my health. Obesity influences cancer, and I certainly didn't want another dose of that ten years after dealing with a tumour in my breast. And my mobility had gone from bad to bloomin' awful.
Walking my dogs had become a painful trial caused by the extra pressure to my ankles, knees and metal hips. I could only just crawl up the stairs and, when my back was really bad, I used a stick.
I felt, in my early 60s, time was running out. Best get on with it and take the radical route as soon as possible, paying for it myself because I didn't want to languish on the NHS waiting list for a year, possibly longer.
My failure to keep weight off is legendary — cabbage soup, Atkins, Dukan, 5:2, I've tried them all. The most I ever lost was 7st in 2008, which was achieved through sheer effort and willpower.
But in every case, the moment I started to relax and eat normally, the pounds crept back on at an alarming rate. Such strict rules are impossible to sustain.
It's a miserable life being constantly in a battle with your own body. You walk, you swim, you do yoga and Pilates and still you gain weight.
Science now shows it's not just greed and lack of exercise that's causing the obesity crisis. A body that's been deprived during a strict diet will go into starvation mode — you'll be hungrier, and more fat will be laid down than ever before.
Yes, a lot of modern food is unhealthy — full of fat, sugar and salt — but obesity involves genetics, hormones and metabolism. It's complicated. And that's not just me making excuses.
It was my GP who first suggested weight-loss surgery, in spring 2014. He was worried that my glucose tolerance was poor — not yet type 2 diabetes, but well on the way. Then there was the raised risk of cancer, heart attacks, strokes.
He proposed a gastric balloon — inserted into the stomach, it forces a reduction in the size of portions you eat. It stays in for six months and is then removed.
But it seemed like just another diet: once it was removed, the weight would pile on again, surely?
It was an encounter with a young consultant, Mr Billy White, from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, just a few weeks later that set me on the right track. He'd appeared on Woman's Hour to discuss childhood obesity.
Off-air when I jokingly said: 'So what do you recommend for an obese middle-aged woman?' he assured me that being fat wasn't altogether my fault and advised me to enquire further into the surgical options.
He recommended the internationally renowned surgeon Professor Francesco Rubino, at King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust in South London.
My GP sent a referral letter and I was relieved when he agreed to take on my case. First, though, the GP had to check whether I was a suitable candidate for treatment on the NHS.
Anyone with a BMI of more than 40 is eligible — so, too, are those with a combination of type 2 diabetes or high blood pressure plus a BMI above 35.
For a long time I'd ignored the bathroom scales and had no idea of my BMI — head-in-the-sand tactics — so I was shocked to discover I weighed 20 st and that my BMI was 45 (the healthy range being 18.5–24.9). Even though my blood pressure was fine, it meant the NHS would foot the bill.
But that would only happen if other means of weight loss had been proven to have failed: so it can take a good year of trying to diet and exercise before permission is given.
I joined a gym, swam a lot, increased consumption of fruit and veg and cut out sugar and fats. I have to say my diet was never particularly unhealthy, but I rarely skipped the chips and pudding when I ate out.
I lost a pound or two but nothing significant. I felt no guilt at the possibility of NHS treatment. I've paid my dues and see an intractable weight problem as no different from any other condition needing care.
Besides, it's been proved that the surgery — which costs around £10,000 — pays for itself within three years, saving a fortune on treatments for obesity-related problems.
In my case, there was a hiccup around Christmas which meant everything had to be put on hold. I fell from a step on a cold and icy morning and broke my humerus very badly. It needed surgery. I wasn't able to focus on my weight-loss plans until late spring.
My 65th birthday was in May. If I pursued the NHS path of diet and exercise to prove surgery really was my only option, I would be 66 before my attempt to fulfil the protocol was over.
I felt so wretched carrying all that weight around, and was increasingly worried about my health. I hadn't been given an urgent diagnosis, I was just impatient to get the thing over and done with.
So I decided to dig into my savings and pay for it myself. It would, I hoped, be the best £10,000 I'd ever spend. My family, finally convinced by the science, were persuaded that as long as I survived the operation it may give them a few more years of a fit, healthy wife and mother.
The date was set for June 17. Charlie, who lives and works in London, was named next of kin. My eldest son Ed and husband David would take on post-op care in the Peak District.
It would be done via keyhole surgery: the outside part of the stomach would be removed (the part containing the hunger hormone, ghrelin), leaving a smaller, narrow stomach pouch.
For the two or three weeks prior to surgery you're asked to follow a strict low-carb, fat-free diet to reduce the size of the liver so the surgeon has easier access to the stomach — so there's no question of a final big blow-out the night before the op.
In the first week of the diet, I was unable to resist an invitation to my favourite restaurant of all time: Angela Hartnett's Murano in London. Charlie and his girlfriend had asked me and I knew I'd be able to stick to the rules because there'd be healthy choices.
I had a gorgeous lobster starter and a fish main course with veg. No wine, no bread and no pudding felt a bit weird.
But the delicate flavours were a simple delight and I'm assured that sometime in the not-too-distant future I'll be able to enjoy them again; it's reckoned you can manage a starter and around a third of a main dish when your gastric op settles down.
And bless the kids — they only drank water and gave me a lick of their puddings!
The night before the surgery, the terror set in.
I'm no stranger to the operating theatre, but I'll always remember waking up after my hips were done and hearing on the radio that film director Anthony Minghella had died during a minor procedure to remove a lump on his neck.
I hate having people, no matter how close, with me in such circumstances. I like to have just a book to pass the time. So I walked alone into the ward like a prisoner being led to the scaffold.
I was in theatre for two hours and awoke three hours later to find Charlie by my bedside.
The following morning, I was fully awake and thirsty. Only clear liquids were allowed, so I had a cup of black coffee — it went down well and tasted great. A huge relief.
I got up feeling a little wobbly after the anaesthetic and the post-op painkillers, but I had a shower and sat in the chair feeling astonished at how little pain there was.
Nothing more than the kind of rumbling you get in an empty stomach. And that's the way it continued with me taking just a couple of paracetamol.
Professor Rubino visited, told me I was doing really well and gave me a diet sheet to take home.
I began two weeks of a liquid-only diet — keeping up protein content — which is followed by two weeks of finely pureed food. Then four weeks or so of thicker purees and, after eight weeks, a normal, healthy diet.
I was allowed milk two days after the surgery (skimmed, in my coffee) and for lunch it was thin, liquidised lentil and tomato soup. I managed about four dessert spoons before feeling full.
Professor Rubino said: 'Ah good, you can tolerate tomato, some people can't. You can go home now. Stick carefully to the diet and I'll see you in four or five weeks.'
Charlie collected me and we went to my London home.
I decided to stay in London for the two-week recovery period, before returning to work. A 200-mile drive seemed a bit of a challenge, and it felt wiser to be closer to the hospital just in case.
There were lots of conversations on the phone with my husband and number one son.
They were hugely relieved at how breezy I sounded and they plan to visit me this weekend. Frankly, I like being alone; not having to worry about other people's meals or risk the aroma of them cooking real food just yet.
I have been following the liquid diet to the letter: vitamin supplements, two smoothies made with Juice Plus+ Complete — a meal supplement rather like Slim-Fast — skimmed milk (20 g protein per serving, I need 60 g a day) and strawberries or bananas.
I've also made a soup with skinned chicken breasts, stock, onions and lots of veg. It liquidises easily and I can manage a few spoonfuls before feeling full.
After two weeks of liquids, now it's pureed food with no lumps. I'm planning a homemade fish pie and a shepherd's pie for mashing up, and should be able to eat five tablespoons per meal.
Then I can introduce small portions of more lumpy food and, after eight weeks, a normal diet — meat, fish, cheese, eggs, fruit and veg in small portions. The trick is to cut things up small, chew them well, eat slowly and stop when you feel full.
It's said the method changes tastes and people find they fancy junk or sugary stuff less.
As for portions, that's what the new stomach will do for me. As I said, if I stuff it too full, I'll be sick. No contest!
When I returned to work yesterday, concerned heads popped round the door of the cubby hole known as my office. One skinny latte replaced the two full-fat lattes of habit. No porridge with honey, but the special protein drink I've brought with me.
Everyone's amazed at the speed of my recovery, how well I look and the initial weight loss. It feels good to be getting back to normal, although, as the professor warned, I get more tired than usual. That won't last.
Already my customary leggings feel a little less snug, I got in and out of the car with slightly less effort and a friend who came to visit last week said she thought I was moving around more comfortably than before. Early reassurance I was right to go ahead with the surgery.
Not for the size 12 clothes that glimmer on the horizon, but for the knowledge I've done everything I can to extend my life expectancy — for me and my family.