http://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-3145613/Do-blue-eyes-likely-alcoholic-light-coloured-irises-partial-drink.html?ITO=1490&ns_mchannel=rss&ns_campaign=1490
Why you're more likely to be an alcoholic if you have blue eyes | Daily Mail Online

Most people would kill for a pair of sparkly blue eyes.
But those with blue irises should beware, as they may be more likely to become alcoholics, according to new research.
A study found those with light coloured eyes - including blue, green, grey and brown in the centre – were more likely to be dependent on drinking than those with dark brown eyes.
And blue-eyed people had the strongest tendency to be addicted to alcohol, researchers discovered.
The parts of genes that determine eye colour line up along the same chromosome as the genes related to excessive alcohol use, researchers found.
However, they  added they do not know why this is - and say more research is needed.
In May Irish actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers - who starred in Bend It Like Beckham and played Henry VIII in the TV series The Tudors - was seen drinking vodka straight from the bottle on a London street.
He is known to have problems with drinking and went to rehab three times between 2005 and 2009.
Similarly, blue-eyed David Hasselhoff has admitted to being treated for alcohol problems in the past.
And rhythm and blues singer Amy Winehouse, who has green eyes, died of alcohol poisoning in 2011.
This is the first study of its kind to link a person's eye colour and their dependence on alcohol, he added.

'This suggests an intriguing possibility -- that eye colour can be useful in the clinic for alcohol dependence diagnosis,' said Dr Arvis Sulovari, of the University of Vermont, who carried out the research.
He hopes the findings will help find the roots of not only alcoholism, but other psychiatric illnesses.

As part of the study the researchers used data from a database of more than 10,000 individuals, mostly African Americans and European Americans, diagnosed with at least one psychiatric illness.
Many have multiple diagnoses of diseases, including depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, as well as addiction and alcohol or drug dependence.
They filtered out the alcohol-dependent patients with European ancestry, and found a total of 1,263.
After noticing the connection between eye colour and alcoholism, they retested their analysis three times.
They arranged and rearranged the groups to compare age, gender and different ethnic or geographic backgrounds, such as southern and northern parts of the continent.
But the connection between a lighter eye colour and an addiction to alcohol was still strong.
Next, the researchers want to investigate the relationship between genetics and cultural background to find out more about the underlying causes of mental illness.
The findings were published in the journal American Journal of Medical Genetics: Neuropsychiatric Genetics (Part B).
